[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abomination of desolation|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abraham, covenant of|Next Entry]]

 Father of a multitude. Originally called Abram, "exalted father" ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 11#^verse-26|Gen. 11:26]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 17#^verse-5|17:5]]). Son of Terah, born in Ur of the Chaldees ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 11#^verse-26|Gen. 11:26-28]]). The migration to Haran, where Terah died, is found in [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 11#^verse-31|Gen. 11:31]]. Abraham's journey to Canaan, the divine call, and the covenant are recorded in [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 12#^verse-1|Gen. 12:1-5]]. His sojourn in Egypt is given in [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 11|Gen. 11-20]] and [[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 1|Abr. 1-3]]. Other important events: settlement in Hebron ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 13#^verse-18|Gen. 13:18]]); rescue of Lot and the meeting with Melchizedek ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 14|Gen. 14]]); further blessings and promises ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 15#^verse-1|Gen. 15:1]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 17#^verse-8|17:8]]); institution of circumcision and change of name to Abraham ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 17#^verse-9|Gen. 17:9-27]]); intercession for Lot at Sodom ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 19|Gen. 19]]); offering of Isaac and renewal of the covenant and blessings ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 22|Gen. 22]]); death of Sarah and purchase of the cave of Machpelah as a family burial place ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 23|Gen. 23]]); Abraham's death and burial ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 25#^verse-8|Gen. 25:8-10]]).

 Abraham is always regarded in the Old Testament as founder of the covenant race, which is personified in the house of Israel. He is the "father of the faithful." John the Baptist and Paul rebuked those holding the erroneous idea that natural descent from Abraham was by itself sufficient to secure God's favor ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 3#^verse-9|Matt. 3:9]]; [[New Testament/Romans/Romans 9#^verse-7|Rom. 9:7]]). For references to him in Jesus' teachings see [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 8#^verse-11|Matt. 8:11]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 16#^verse-22|Luke 16:22]]; [[New Testament/John/John 8#^verse-56|John 8:56]].

 Latter-day revelation has clarified the significance of the Abrahamic covenant and other aspects of Abraham's life and ministry. We learn that he was greatly blessed with divine revelation concerning the planetary system, the creation of the earth, and the premortal activities of the spirits of mankind. One of the most valiant spirits in the premortal life, he was chosen to be a leader in the kingdom of God before he was born into this world ([[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 1|Abr. 1-5]]). We also learn from latter-day revelation that because of Abraham's faithfulness he is now exalted and sits upon a throne in eternity ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-29|D&C 132:29, 37]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abomination of desolation|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abraham, covenant of|Next Entry]]