[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abraham|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abraham's Bosom|Next Entry]]

 Abraham first received the gospel by baptism (which is the covenant of salvation). Then he had conferred upon him the higher priesthood, and he entered into celestial marriage (which is the covenant of exaltation), gaining assurance thereby that he would have eternal increase. Finally he received a promise that all of these blessings would be offered to all of his mortal posterity ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-29|D&C 132:29-50]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 2#^verse-6|Abr. 2:6-11]]). Included in the divine promises to Abraham were the assurances that (1) Christ would come through his lineage, and that (2) Abraham's posterity would receive certain lands as an eternal inheritance ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 17|Gen. 17]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 22#^verse-15|22:15-18]]; [[New Testament/Galations/Galations 3|Gal. 3]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 2|Abr. 2]]). These promises taken together are called the "Abrahamic covenant." It was renewed with Isaac ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 26#^verse-1|Gen. 26:1-4, 24]]) and again with Jacob ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 28|Gen. 28]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 35#^verse-9|35:9-13]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 48#^verse-3|48:3-4]]).

 The portions of the covenant that pertain to personal salvation and eternal increase are renewed with each individual who receives the ordinance of celestial marriage (see [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-29|D&C 132:29-33]]). Those of non-Israelite lineage, commonly known as Gentiles, are adopted into the house of Israel and become heirs of the covenant and the seed of Abraham through the ordinances of the gospel ([[New Testament/Galations/Galations 3#^verse-26|Gal. 3:26-29]]).

 Being an heir to the Abrahamic covenant does not make one a "chosen person" per se but does signify that such are chosen to responsibly carry the gospel to all the peoples of the earth. Abraham's seed have carried out the missionary activity in all the nations since Abraham's day. ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 3#^verse-9|Matt. 3:9]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 2#^verse-9|Abr. 2:9-11]].)

 To fulfill the covenant God made with Abraham—having particular reference to the fact that the literal seed of his body would be entitled to all of the blessings of the gospel ([[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 2#^verse-10|Abr. 2:10-11]])—a number of specific and particular things must take place in the last days. The gospel must be restored, the priesthood must be conferred again upon man, the keys of the sealing power must be given again to mortals, Israel must be gathered, and the Holy Ghost must be poured out upon the Gentiles. All this has already taken place or is in process of fulfillment. See also [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Adoption|Adoption]]; [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Gentile|Gentile]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abraham|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abraham's Bosom|Next Entry]]