[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Andrew|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Animals|Next Entry]]

 These are messengers of the Lord and are spoken of in the epistle to the Hebrews as "ministering spirits" ([[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 1#^verse-14|Heb. 1:14]]). We learn from latter-day revelation that there are two classes of heavenly beings who minister for the Lord: those who are spirits and those who have bodies of flesh and bone. Spirits are those beings who either have not yet obtained a body of flesh and bone (unembodied) or who have once had a mortal body and have died and are awaiting the Resurrection (disembodied). Ordinarily the word angel means those ministering persons who have a body of flesh and bone, being either resurrected from the dead (reembodied), or else translated, as were Enoch, Elijah, etc. ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 129|D&C 129]]).

 There are many references to the work of angels in the Old Testament. In some passages the "angel of the Lord" speaks as the voice of God Himself ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 22#^verse-11|Gen. 22:11-12]]). The word angel is also sometimes used to designate a human messenger, as in [[Study Helps/Joseph Smith Translation Appendix/JST, Genesis/JST, Genesis 19#^verse-15|JST Gen. 19:15 (Appendix)]], and may have some application also in [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 13#^verse-39|Matt. 13:39-42]]. There is evidence of nonmortal beings who serve God in heaven ([[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 22#^verse-19|1 Kgs. 22:19]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 36#^verse-22|Alma 36:22]]) and also of some who do God's will and minister to men on the earth ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 28#^verse-12|Gen. 28:12]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 32#^verse-1|32:1]]; [[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 24#^verse-16|2 Sam. 24:16]]; [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 19#^verse-5|1 Kgs. 19:5-7]]; [[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 1#^verse-15|2 Kgs. 1:15]]; [[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 19#^verse-35|19:35]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 91#^verse-11|Ps. 91:11]]).

 We find angels mentioned by name in [[Old Testament/Daniel/Daniel 8#^verse-16|Dan. 8:16]]; [[Old Testament/Daniel/Daniel 9#^verse-21|9:21]]; [[Old Testament/Daniel/Daniel 10#^verse-13|10:13, 21]]; [[Old Testament/Daniel/Daniel 12#^verse-1|12:1]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-19|Luke 1:19, 26]]. In latter-day revelation we learn that the angel Michael is Adam, and the angel Gabriel is Noah (HC 3:386).

 In the New Testament there are many references to the ministry of angels but no clear statement as to their nature or their relation to mankind in general. Angels attended on our Lord throughout His life on earth ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 1#^verse-20|Matt. 1:20]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 2#^verse-13|2:13, 19]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 4#^verse-11|4:11]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 28#^verse-2|28:2-8]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-11|Luke 1:11-20, 26-30]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-9|2:9-15]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 22#^verse-43|22:43]]). Jesus often spoke of angels ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 13#^verse-14|Matt. 13:14-30, 37-41]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 16#^verse-27|16:27]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 18#^verse-10|18:10]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 22#^verse-30|22:30]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 24#^verse-36|24:36]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 15#^verse-10|Luke 15:10]], etc.). The Sadducees did not believe in supernatural beings, but the Pharisees believed in both angels and spirits, which fact Paul used to his advantage when brought before the Sanhedrin ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 23#^verse-7|Acts 23:7-9]]). Other New Testament references are [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-53|Acts 7:53]]; [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 4#^verse-9|1 Cor. 4:9]]; [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 6#^verse-3|6:3]]; [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 11#^verse-10|11:10]]; [[New Testament/Galations/Galations 1#^verse-8|Gal. 1:8]]; [[New Testament/Galations/Galations 3#^verse-19|3:19]]; [[New Testament/Colossians/Colossians 2#^verse-18|Col. 2:18]] (where we are warned against worship of angels), and throughout the Revelation of John. There are references to fallen angels in [[New Testament/2 Peter/2 Peter 2#^verse-4|2 Pet. 2:4]] and [[New Testament/Jude#^verse-6|Jude 1:6]].

 The scriptures speak of the devil's angels. These are those spirits who followed Lucifer and were thrust out in the war in heaven and cast down to the earth. See [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12#^verse-1|Rev. 12:1-9]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 29#^verse-36|D&C 29:36-38]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 4#^verse-1|Moses 4:1-4]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 3#^verse-27|Abr. 3:27-28]]; and as alluded to by Peter and Jude cited above.

 Latter-day revelation contains much about the nature, ministry, and identification of angels. See [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 32#^verse-2|2 Ne. 32:2-3]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 12#^verse-28|Alma 12:28-29]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 13#^verse-24|13:24-26]]; [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 7#^verse-29|Moro. 7:29-31]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 7#^verse-6|D&C 7:6-7]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 13|13]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 27#^verse-16|27:16]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76#^verse-21|76:21]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 110#^verse-11|110:11-16]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 128#^verse-21|128:21]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 129|129]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-16|132:16-18]]. Angels do not have wings (HC 3:392).

 The word angel is used in various ways. A person who is a divine messenger is called an angel. Thus Moroni, John the Baptist, Peter, James, John, Moses, Elijah, and Elias all ministered to Joseph Smith as angels. These all shall be exalted and inherit celestial glory. The scriptures also speak of another class of persons who, because of failure to obey the gospel, will not be exalted and will become angels in eternity. These are spoken of as angels in [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 22#^verse-29|Matt. 22:29-30]] and [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-16|D&C 132:16-18]]. This latter designation should not be confused with the use of the term angels having reference to the heavenly messengers sent forth to minister to the inhabitants of the earth.

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Andrew|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Animals|Next Entry]]