[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Annunciation|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Anointed One|Next Entry]]

 To apply oil or ointment to the head or the person. Anciently anointing was done for reasons both secular and sacred. It is a sign of hospitality in [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 7#^verse-46|Luke 7:46]] and of routine personal grooming in [[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 12#^verse-20|2 Sam. 12:20]] and [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 6#^verse-17|Matt. 6:17]]. The maimed or sick were anointed with wine, oil, or ointment as medicine ([[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 1#^verse-6|Isa. 1:6]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 10#^verse-34|Luke 10:34]]; [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 3#^verse-18|Rev. 3:18]]). The sick were also anointed with oil as part of the sacred procedure in healing of the sick by faith and the laying on of hands ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 6#^verse-13|Mark 6:13]]; [[New Testament/James/James 5#^verse-14|James 5:14-15]]).

 Kings were anointed to their office by the prophets ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 10#^verse-1|1 Sam. 10:1]]; [[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 16#^verse-13|16:13]]; [[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 5#^verse-3|2 Sam. 5:3]]; [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 1#^verse-39|1 Kgs. 1:39]]; [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 19#^verse-16|19:16]]; [[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 9#^verse-3|2 Kgs. 9:3, 6]]; [[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 11#^verse-12|11:12]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 11#^verse-3|1 Chr. 11:3]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 29#^verse-22|29:22]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 23#^verse-11|2 Chr. 23:11]]). The anointing of the priests is outlined in [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 40#^verse-15|Ex. 40:15]]; of the high priest (Aaronic order) in [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 21#^verse-10|Lev. 21:10]]. Elisha was to be anointed a prophet by Elijah ([[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 19#^verse-16|1 Kgs. 19:16]]).

 The holy anointing oil used in the law of Moses was composed of olive oil mixed with spices and was to be restricted in use to certain specified ceremonies ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 30#^verse-22|Ex. 30:22-33]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 37#^verse-29|37:29]]). Paul and John speak of an anointing of the Spirit ([[New Testament/2 Corinthians/2 Corinthians 1#^verse-21|2 Cor. 1:21-22]]; [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 2#^verse-20|1 Jn. 2:20, 27]]), and Peter says that "God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power" ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 10#^verse-38|Acts 10:38]]). See [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Anointed One|Anointed One]].

 In the Church today holy consecrated olive oil is used in anointing persons in various sacred ceremonies, including administration to the sick. Although the scriptures do not specifically so state, we may confidently assume that anointing with oil has been part of true, revealed religion ever since the gospel was first introduced on this earth to Adam.

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Annunciation|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Anointed One|Next Entry]]