[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Blasphemy|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Blood|Next Entry]]

 A common affliction in the Middle East in Bible times. Several types of blindness are spoken of. One type resulted as a consequence of old age, as with Isaac, Eli, and Ahijah ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 27#^verse-1|Gen. 27:1]]; [[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 3#^verse-2|1 Sam. 3:2]]; [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 14#^verse-4|1 Kgs. 14:4]]). The bright glare of the sun was no doubt a cause of blindness, as was also infection or disease. There are many instances of Jesus healing the blind. Indeed, part of His mission as foretold by Isaiah included "recovering of sight to the blind" ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 4#^verse-18|Luke 4:18-22]]), which is noted in the Septuagint text of [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 61#^verse-1|Isa. 61:1-2]]. Examples of Jesus curing physical blindness are recorded in [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 9#^verse-27|Matt. 9:27-31]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 12#^verse-22|12:22]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 20#^verse-30|20:30-34]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 8#^verse-22|Mark 8:22-25]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 10#^verse-46|10:46-52]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 7#^verse-21|Luke 7:21]]; [[New Testament/John/John 9|John 9]]. In addition to the healing of physical blindness, the mission of Jesus included curing blindness to the things of the spirit. He made an application of this in [[New Testament/John/John 9#^verse-5|John 9:5]] when, in conjunction with healing the man born blind, He declared that He (Jesus) was "the light of the world." He also used the occasion to remind the Pharisees of their spiritual blindness ([[New Testament/John/John 9#^verse-39|John 9:39-41]]). The curing of spiritual blindness is also spoken of in [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 9#^verse-2|Isa. 9:2]]; [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 29#^verse-18|29:18]]; [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 35#^verse-5|35:5]]; [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 42#^verse-18|42:18-21]]; [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 43#^verse-8|43:8]]; [[New Testament/Romans/Romans 11#^verse-25|Rom. 11:25]]; and [[New Testament/Ephesians/Ephesians 4#^verse-18|Eph. 4:18]]. See also [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 9#^verse-31|2 Ne. 9:31-32]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 58#^verse-15|D&C 58:15]].

 Blindness is also used in the Bible as a type of curse or punishment perhaps with some vivid symbolism of its spiritual counterpart. Examples of this are the men of Sodom ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 19#^verse-11|Gen. 19:11]]), the Syrian army ([[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 6#^verse-18|2 Kgs. 6:18]]), and Elymas ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 13#^verse-11|Acts 13:11]]). Paul was struck blind for three days, following his vision of the Lord on the road to Damascus ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 9#^verse-1|Acts 9:1-18]]).

 There is evidence that some of the Jews thought blindness was always the result of sin, as in [[New Testament/John/John 9#^verse-1|John 9:1-2, 34]], but Jesus made it clear that physical impairment may be due to other causes and is not necessarily due to sin.

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Blasphemy|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Blood|Next Entry]]