[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Caiaphas|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Caleb|Next Entry]]

 A son of Adam and Eve who slew his younger brother Abel over jealousy and greed ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 4#^verse-1|Gen. 4:1-16]]). Some of his descendants were skilled in the use of the harp and organ and in working with brass and iron ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 4#^verse-17|Gen. 4:17-25]]). Due to the incompleteness of the biblical record, many have regarded Cain as the eldest son of Adam. However, latter-day revelation tells us that Adam and Eve had many sons and daughters before Cain was born ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5#^verse-1|Moses 5:1-3, 16-18]]). He married one of his brothers' daughters ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5#^verse-28|Moses 5:28]]).

 Cain's offering was rejected by the Lord, probably for several reasons, including the fact that it was not done in faith nor in the prescribed and revealed manner (compare [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5#^verse-5|Moses 5:5-8]] with [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 4#^verse-3|Gen. 4:3-5]]). He entered into an unholy covenant with Satan by which he became known as Master Mahan, or "master of this great secret," and by which he could "murder and get gain" ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5#^verse-29|Moses 5:29-31]]). A mark was set upon him by which he could be distinguished from the other children of Adam ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 4#^verse-15|Gen. 4:15]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5#^verse-38|Moses 5:38-41]]). Cain and his descendants lived separately from the other descendants of Adam ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 7#^verse-22|Moses 7:22]]).

 Cain is mentioned frequently in the scriptures, including [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-4|Heb. 11:4]]; [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 3#^verse-12|1 Jn. 3:12]]; [[New Testament/Jude#^verse-11|Jude 1:11]]; [[Book of Mormon/Helaman/Helaman 6#^verse-27|Hel. 6:27]]; [[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 8#^verse-15|Ether 8:15]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5|Moses 5-7]]; see also [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 84#^verse-16|D&C 84:16]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Caiaphas|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Caleb|Next Entry]]