[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Captain of the Temple|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Carbuncle|Next Entry]]

 (1) Of Israel: In 740 B.C. Tiglath-pileser carried away the trans-Jordanic tribes and the inhabitants of Galilee ([[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 15#^verse-29|2 Kgs. 15:29]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 5#^verse-26|1 Chr. 5:26]]) to Assyria; in 721 B.C. Sargon Ⅱ carried into captivity the rest of Israel ([[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 17#^verse-3|2 Kgs. 17:3]]), placing them at Halah, Habor, etc. ([[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 17#^verse-6|2 Kgs. 17:6]]). The cities of Samaria were then peopled with colonists from Babylon, Cuthah, etc. ([[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 17#^verse-24|2 Kgs. 17:24]]). The later history of the captive Israelites cannot be followed with certainty; some were merged in the gentile population, some returned to their homeland under the decree of Cyrus, and others remained in Babylon and helped to form the dispersion. They have come to be known as the lost tribes.

 (2) Of Judah: In 701 B.C. Sennacherib carried into Assyria 200,150 captives from Jewish cities ([[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 18#^verse-13|2 Kgs. 18:13]]); in 597 B.C. and again in 586 B.C. there were large deportations under Nebuchadnezzar ([[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 24#^verse-14|2 Kgs. 24:14]]; [[Old Testament/2 Kings/2 Kings 25#^verse-11|25:11]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 36#^verse-6|2 Chr. 36:6-10]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 52|Jer. 52]]). A considerable number of Jews were left behind in Judea ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 40|Jer. 40-43]]). Those in captivity were assured by the teaching of Ezekiel that the glory of the temple would again be restored. The captivity was brought to a close by the decree of Cyrus in 536 B.C. ([[Old Testament/Ezra/Ezra 1#^verse-2|Ezra 1:2]]), who permitted all worshippers of Jehovah to return and build the temple in Jerusalem. Only part of the people availed themselves of this permission; the rest remained behind and formed the dispersion.

 The period of the captivity had a lasting effect upon the Jewish people. It put a stop to the old sin of idolatry; it was a time of great spiritual revival ([[Old Testament/Ezekiel/Ezekiel 36#^verse-24|Ezek. 36:24-28]]), a number of the Psalms being written during this period; and it led to a deepening reverence for the law of Moses, especially that part of it dealing with ritual observance.

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Captain of the Temple|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Carbuncle|Next Entry]]