[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Claudius|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Cleanness of teeth|Next Entry]]

 The distinction that the Israelites drew between clean and unclean had a great effect upon the whole of their religious and social life. It applied in the first place to food. Certain animals, birds, and fishes were regarded as clean and might be eaten, while others were unclean and were forbidden. See [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 11|Lev. 11]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 14#^verse-3|Deut. 14:3-20]]. The flesh of any animal dying of itself or torn by wild animals was also forbidden ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 22#^verse-31|Ex. 22:31]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 17#^verse-15|Lev. 17:15]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 22#^verse-8|22:8]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 14#^verse-21|Deut. 14:21]]). No Israelite might eat blood, which was regarded as containing the life; it had to be poured out and covered up ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 9#^verse-4|Gen. 9:4]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 17#^verse-10|Lev. 17:10-14]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 19#^verse-26|19:26]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 12#^verse-16|Deut. 12:16, 23-25]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 15#^verse-23|15:23]]). Fat also was forbidden; it belonged to God ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 7#^verse-22|Lev. 7:22-27]]).

 For seven or fourteen days after the birth of a child the mother was unclean ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 12|Lev. 12]]). Uncleanness also resulted from the touch of a dead body ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 11#^verse-8|Lev. 11:8]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 21#^verse-1|21:1-4, 11]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 22#^verse-4|22:4-7]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 21#^verse-22|Deut. 21:22]]). The leper was unclean and communicated uncleanness to everything he touched ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 13#^verse-1|Lev. 13:1-46]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 14|14]]). In New Testament times, to enter the house of a Gentile or to eat food with him involved uncleanness ([[New Testament/John/John 18#^verse-28|John 18:28]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 10#^verse-28|Acts 10:28]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 11#^verse-23|11:23]]). So long as a person was unclean he was cut off from the congregation. In ordinary cases of uncleanness it was sufficient to remain in seclusion till the evening and then to wash the body. In certain cases a sin offering was necessary.

 Uncleanness referred to being ceremonially or ritually unclean and should not be taken to mean that the touching of a dead body or the bearing of children was morally evil. These regulations (except the prohibition against blood, which was given as early as Noah's day) were introduced in the law of carnal commandments (of performances and ordinances) of the law of Moses; being fulfilled by the Atonement of Jesus Christ, they are no longer required of the believers. See [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 7#^verse-15|Mark 7:15-23]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 10#^verse-9|Acts 10:9-16, 28]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 15#^verse-29|15:29]]; [[New Testament/1 Timothy/1 Timothy 4#^verse-4|1 Tim. 4:4]]; [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 25#^verse-24|2 Ne. 25:24-27]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 13#^verse-29|Mosiah 13:29-32]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Claudius|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Cleanness of teeth|Next Entry]]