[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Darkness|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Day of Atonement|Next Entry]]

 Beloved. His life divides into four portions: (1) at Bethlehem with the sheep ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 16|1 Sam. 16-17]]); (2) at court ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 18#^verse-1|1 Sam. 18:1-19:18]]) (see [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jonathan|Jonathan]]); (3) as a fugitive ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 19#^verse-18|1 Sam. 19:18-31:13]]; [[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 1|2 Sam. 1]]); (4) as king (a) over Judah at Hebron ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 2|2 Sam. 2-4]]), (b) over all Israel ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 5|2 Sam. 5-24]]; [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 1#^verse-1|1 Kgs. 1:1-2:11]]). The long and varied discipline through which he passed in the earlier part of his life fitted him for the duties of the throne. As shepherd he acquired the habit of deep reflection; as courtier he was trained in self-control and chivalrous generosity; as outlaw he acquired knowledge of men and power of government. Each successive phase of experience developed in him the conscious dependence upon God that was the secret of his strength throughout his life. Like Saul he was guilty of grave crimes; but unlike Saul, he was capable of true contrition and was therefore able to find forgiveness, except in the murder of Uriah. As a consequence David is still unforgiven, but he received a promise that the Lord would not leave his soul in hell. He will be resurrected at the end of the Millennium. Because of his transgressions, he has fallen from his exaltation ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-39|D&C 132:39]]).

 So long as Abner and Ishbosheth lived, David's kingdom was restricted to the tribe of Judah. After their deaths he started on a series of conquests, beginning with Jerusalem, and finally extending his dominions as far as the Euphrates. His sin with Bathsheba was followed by a series of misfortunes that marred the last 20 years of his life. The nation as a whole was prosperous, but David himself suffered from the consequences of his own misdeeds. There were constant family feuds, which, in the case of Absalom and Adonijah, ended in open rebellion. These incidents are a fulfillment of the pronouncement of Nathan the prophet upon David, because of his sin ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 12#^verse-7|2 Sam. 12:7-13]]).

 In spite of these disasters David's reign was the most brilliant of Israelite history, for (1) he united the tribes into one nation, (2) he secured undisputed possession of the country, (3) the whole government rested upon a religious basis, and the will of God was the law of Israel. For these reasons it was in later times regarded as the nation's golden age and the type of the more glorious age to which the nation looked forward when Messiah should come ([[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 16#^verse-5|Isa. 16:5]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 23#^verse-5|Jer. 23:5]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 30#^verse-9|30:9]]; [[Old Testament/Ezekiel/Ezekiel 34#^verse-23|Ezek. 34:23-24]]; [[Old Testament/Ezekiel/Ezekiel 37#^verse-24|37:24-28]]).

 A large number of the Psalms ascribed to David were certainly not written by him, but the following seem directly connected with the history of his life. A series consisting of [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 101|Ps. 101]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 15|15]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 68|68]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 24|24]] was probably composed on the occasion of the removal of the Ark to Jerusalem. [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 20|Ps. 20]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 21|21]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 60|60]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 110|110]] belong to the period of David's foreign wars; while [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 18|Ps. 18]] ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 22|2 Sam. 22]]) marks the highest point of the national prosperity. David's fall gave occasion to [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 51|Ps. 51]] and [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 32|32]]. The flight from Absalom led to the composition of [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 63|Ps. 63]] (written immediately after he left the city), [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 3|3]] and [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 4|4]] (which are morning and evening hymns), [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 26|26]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 62|62]], [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 27|27]], and [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 28|28]]. There are others that are possibly of Davidic origin.

 David's life illustrates the need for all persons to endure in righteousness to the end. As a youth he is characterized as being a man after the Lord's "own heart" ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 13#^verse-14|1 Sam. 13:14]]); as a man he spoke by the Spirit and had many revelations. But he paid, and is paying, a heavy price for his disobedience to the commandments of God.

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Darkness|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Day of Atonement|Next Entry]]