[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Dead Sea Scrolls|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Deborah|Next Entry]]

 Two kinds of death are spoken of in the scriptures. One is the death of the body, which is caused by the separation of the body from the spirit; "The body without the spirit is dead" ([[New Testament/James/James 2#^verse-26|James 2:26]]). The other is spiritual death, which is to die as pertaining to, or to be separated from, righteousness—to be alienated from the things of God ([[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 12#^verse-16|Alma 12:16, 32]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 40#^verse-26|40:26]]). Both of these deaths were introduced into the world by the Fall of Adam. But death is also the consequence of our own sins. We make our own spiritual death by our works, our thoughts, and our actions. As Paul said, "The wages of sin is death" ([[New Testament/Romans/Romans 6#^verse-23|Rom. 6:23]]), and some are "dead" while they live ([[New Testament/1 Timothy/1 Timothy 5#^verse-6|1 Tim. 5:6]]).

 In explaining these things, Jacob called the physical death the grave and spiritual death he called hell. The Atonement of Jesus Christ will bring all persons back into the presence of God to be judged, the body coming forth from the grave and uniting with the spirit released from paradise or from hell (as the case may be). This will restore all mankind to the presence of God. This is the same as Paul spoke: "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" ([[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 15#^verse-21|1 Cor. 15:21-23]]). Then those who have willfully rebelled against the light and truth of the gospel will suffer again a spiritual death, which is called the second death ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 20#^verse-14|Rev. 20:14]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 12#^verse-16|Alma 12:16-18]]; [[Book of Mormon/Helaman/Helaman 14#^verse-16|Hel. 14:16-19]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76#^verse-36|D&C 76:36-37]]). Each person suffers only one physical death, since when once resurrected, the body can die no more ([[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 11#^verse-42|Alma 11:42-45]]).

 Latter-day revelation teaches that there was no death on this earth before the Fall of Adam. Indeed, death entered the world as a direct result of the Fall ([[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 2#^verse-22|2 Ne. 2:22]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 6#^verse-48|Moses 6:48]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Dead Sea Scrolls|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Deborah|Next Entry]]