[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Deuteronomy|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Dew|Next Entry]]

 The English word devil in the KJV is used to represent several different words in Greek (slanderer, demon, and adversary) and Hebrew (spoiler). The devil is the enemy of righteousness and of those who seek to do the will of God. Literally a spirit son of God, he was at one time "an angel" in authority in the presence of God; however, he rebelled in the premortal life, at which time he persuaded a third of the spirit children of the Father to rebel with him, in opposition to the plan of salvation championed by Jehovah (Jesus Christ). "Thus came the devil and his angels" ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 29#^verse-37|D&C 29:37]]). They were cast out of heaven and were denied the experience of mortal bodies and earth life ([[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 14#^verse-12|Isa. 14:12-15]]; [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12#^verse-4|Rev. 12:4-9]]; [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 2#^verse-17|2 Ne. 2:17]]; [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 9#^verse-8|9:8]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 29#^verse-36|D&C 29:36-38]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76#^verse-25|76:25-26]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 93#^verse-25|93:25]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 4#^verse-1|Moses 4:1-4]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 3#^verse-27|Abr. 3:27-28]]).

 Latter-day revelation confirms the biblical teaching that the devil is a reality and that he does strive to lead men and women from the work of God. One of the major techniques of the devil is to cause human beings to think they are following God's ways, when in reality they are deceived by the devil to follow other paths.

 Since the devil and his premortal angels have no physical body of flesh and bones, they often seek to possess the bodies of mortal beings. There are many such instances recorded in scripture ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 9#^verse-32|Matt. 9:32]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 12#^verse-22|12:22]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 1#^verse-24|Mark 1:24]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 5#^verse-7|5:7]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 8#^verse-30|Luke 8:30]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 19#^verse-15|Acts 19:15]]; see also [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 3#^verse-6|Mosiah 3:6]]). Such can be evicted by the power of faith in Jesus Christ and the exercise of the holy priesthood. Jesus gave this power to His disciples ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 10#^verse-1|Matt. 10:1]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 16#^verse-17|Mark 16:17]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 10#^verse-17|Luke 10:17]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 5#^verse-16|Acts 5:16]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 84#^verse-67|D&C 84:67]]).

 The devil is called the prince of this world ([[New Testament/John/John 12#^verse-31|John 12:31]]; [[New Testament/John/John 14#^verse-30|14:30]]; [[New Testament/John/John 16#^verse-11|16:11]]); the adversary ([[New Testament/1 Peter/1 Peter 5#^verse-8|1 Pet. 5:8]]); Beelzebub, meaning the prince of the devils ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 3#^verse-22|Mark 3:22]]); the wicked one ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 13#^verse-38|Matt. 13:38]]); the enemy ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 13#^verse-39|Matt. 13:39]]); Lucifer ([[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 14#^verse-12|Isa. 14:12]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76#^verse-26|D&C 76:26]]); Satan ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12#^verse-9|Rev. 12:9]]); prince of the power of the air ([[New Testament/Ephesians/Ephesians 2#^verse-2|Eph. 2:2-3]]); Perdition ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76#^verse-26|D&C 76:26]]); son of the morning ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76#^verse-26|D&C 76:26-27]]); that old serpent ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12#^verse-9|Rev. 12:9]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76#^verse-28|D&C 76:28]]); the great dragon ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12#^verse-7|Rev. 12:7-9]]); a murderer from the beginning ([[New Testament/John/John 8#^verse-44|John 8:44]]); a liar from the beginning ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 93#^verse-25|D&C 93:25]]); and the accuser ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12#^verse-10|Rev. 12:10]]).

 He is miserable in his situation and "stirreth up the children of men unto secret combinations of murder and all manner of secret works of darkness" ([[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 9#^verse-9|2 Ne. 9:9]]). He tries to imitate the work of God by transforming himself nigh unto an angel of light ([[New Testament/2 Corinthians/2 Corinthians 11#^verse-12|2 Cor. 11:12-15]]; [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 9#^verse-9|2 Ne. 9:9]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 128#^verse-20|D&C 128:20]]). He is also a worker of miracles, by which he deceives many upon the earth ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 13#^verse-1|Rev. 13:1-15]]). In fact, the scripture says he deceives the whole world ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12#^verse-9|Rev. 12:9]]). He can cite scripture to make his point seem plausible ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 4#^verse-1|Matt. 4:1-11]]). All of this is his scheme to make man miserable like himself. Protection against the influence of the devil is found by obedience to the commandments and laws of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The message of all the prophets and apostles is that truth, righteousness, and peace shall in the end prevail over error, sin, and war; the faithful shall triumph over all their afflictions and enemies and shall triumph over the devil. There shall be a complete and lasting victory of righteousness over wickedness on this earth, which will be done by the power of the Lord Jesus Christ.

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Deuteronomy|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Dew|Next Entry]]