[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Eldad and Medad|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Eleazar|Next Entry]]

 The term elders is used in various ways in the Bible. In many instances in the Old Testament it has reference to the older men in a tribe, usually entrusted with the governmental affairs. Their age and experience made their counsel sought often. This was not necessarily a priesthood calling. [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 50#^verse-7|Gen. 50:7]], [[Old Testament/Ruth/Ruth 4#^verse-2|Ruth 4:2]], [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 15#^verse-2|Matt. 15:2]], and [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 4#^verse-5|Acts 4:5]] are examples of this usage.

 There were ordained elders in the Melchizedek Priesthood in Old Testament times, as in [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 24#^verse-9|Ex. 24:9-11]] and [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 11#^verse-16|Num. 11:16]]. Among the Nephites there were also ordained elders in the priesthood ([[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 4#^verse-7|Alma 4:7, 16]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 6#^verse-1|6:1]]; [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 3#^verse-1|Moro. 3:1]]; [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 4#^verse-1|4:1]]; [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 6#^verse-1|6:1, 7]]). In the New Testament, elders are mentioned as priesthood offices in the church ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 14#^verse-23|Acts 14:23]]; [[New Testament/1 Timothy/1 Timothy 5#^verse-1|1 Tim. 5:1, 17, 19]]; [[New Testament/James/James 5#^verse-14|James 5:14-15]]). The term elder as used in the New Testament is from the Greek presbyteros. The detailed duties of the ordained elders in the Church today have been defined by latter-day revelation ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 20#^verse-42|D&C 20:42-45]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 42#^verse-44|42:44-52]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 46#^verse-2|46:2]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 107#^verse-12|107:12]]).

 Elder is the proper title given to all holders of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Thus an Apostle is an elder in this sense, and it is proper to speak of members of the Quorum of the Twelve or the Quorums of the Seventy by this title ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 20#^verse-38|D&C 20:38]]; see also [[New Testament/1 Peter/1 Peter 5#^verse-1|1 Pet. 5:1]]; [[New Testament/2 John#^verse-1|2 Jn. 1:1]]; [[New Testament/3 John#^verse-1|3 Jn. 1:1]]). See also [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ministry|Ministry]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Eldad and Medad|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Eleazar|Next Entry]]