[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ezra|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Fall of Adam and Eve|Next Entry]]

 Faith is to hope for things which are not seen, but which are true ([[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-1|Heb. 11:1]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 32#^verse-21|Alma 32:21]]), and must be centered in Jesus Christ in order to produce salvation. To have faith is to have confidence in something or someone. The Lord has revealed Himself and His perfect character, possessing in their fulness all the attributes of love, knowledge, justice, mercy, unchangeableness, power, and every other needful thing, so as to enable the mind of man to place confidence in Him without reservation. Faith is kindled by hearing the testimony of those who have faith ([[New Testament/Romans/Romans 10#^verse-14|Rom. 10:14-17]]). Miracles do not produce faith, but strong faith is developed by obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ; in other words, faith comes by righteousness, although miracles often confirm one's faith.

 Faith is a principle of action and of power, and by it one can command the elements, heal the sick, and influence any number of circumstances when occasion warrants ([[Book of Mormon/Jacob/Jacob 4#^verse-4|Jacob 4:4-7]]). Even more important, by faith one obtains a remission of sins and eventually can stand in the presence of God.

 All true faith must be based upon correct knowledge or it cannot produce the desired results. Faith in Jesus Christ is the first principle of the gospel and is more than belief, since true faith always moves its possessor to some kind of physical and mental action; it carries an assurance of the fulfillment of the things hoped for. A lack of faith leads one to despair, which comes because of iniquity.

 Although faith is a gift, it must be cultured and sought after until it grows from a tiny seed to a great tree. The effects of true faith in Jesus Christ include (1) an actual knowledge that the course of life one is pursuing is acceptable to the Lord (see [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-4|Heb. 11:4]]); (2) a reception of the blessings of the Lord that are available to man in this life; and (3) an assurance of personal salvation in the world to come. These things involve individual and personal testimony, guidance, revelation, and spiritual knowledge. Where there is true faith there are miracles, visions, dreams, healings, and all the gifts of God that He gives to His saints. Jesus pointed out some obstacles to faith in [[New Testament/John/John 5#^verse-44|John 5:44]] and [[New Testament/John/John 12#^verse-39|12:39-42]] (see also [[New Testament/James/James 1#^verse-6|James 1:6-8]]).

 Other references to faith include [[Study Helps/Joseph Smith Translation Appendix/JST, Genesis/JST, Genesis 14#^verse-26|JST Gen. 14:26-36 (Appendix)]]; [[New Testament/2 Corinthians/2 Corinthians 5#^verse-7|2 Cor. 5:7]]; [[New Testament/Ephesians/Ephesians 2#^verse-8|Eph. 2:8-9]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11|Heb. 11]]; [[New Testament/James/James 2#^verse-14|James 2:14-26]]; [[New Testament/1 Peter/1 Peter 1#^verse-8|1 Pet. 1:8-9]]; [[Book of Mormon/Enos#^verse-6|Enos 1:6-8]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 32|Alma 32]]; [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 10#^verse-11|Moro. 10:11]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 46#^verse-13|D&C 46:13-16]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ezra|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Fall of Adam and Eve|Next Entry]]