[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Faith|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Family|Next Entry]]

 The process by which mankind became mortal on this earth. The event is recorded in [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 2|Gen. 2-4]] and [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 3|Moses 3-4]]. The Fall of Adam and Eve is one of the most important occurrences in the history of man. Before the Fall, there were no sin, no death, and no children. With the eating of the "forbidden fruit," Adam and Eve became mortal, sin entered, and death became a part of life. Adam became the "first flesh" upon the earth ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 3#^verse-7|Moses 3:7]]), meaning that he and Eve were the first to become mortal. After Adam fell, the whole creation fell and became mortal. Adam's Fall brought both physical and spiritual death into the world upon all mankind ([[Book of Mormon/Helaman/Helaman 14#^verse-16|Hel. 14:16-17]]).

 The Fall was no surprise to the Lord. It was a necessary step in the progress of man, and provisions for a Savior had been made even before the Fall had occurred. Jesus Christ came to atone for the Fall of Adam and also for man's individual sins.

 Latter-day revelation supports the biblical account of the Fall, showing that it was a historical event that literally occurred in the history of man. Many points in latter-day revelation are also clarified that are not discernible from the Bible. Among other things it makes clear that the Fall is a blessing and that Adam and Eve should be honored in their station as the first parents of the earth. Significant references are [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 2#^verse-15|2 Ne. 2:15-26]]; [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 9#^verse-6|9:6-21]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 3#^verse-11|Mosiah 3:11-16]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 22#^verse-12|Alma 22:12-14]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 42#^verse-2|42:2-15]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 29#^verse-34|D&C 29:34-44]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5#^verse-9|Moses 5:9-13]]. See also [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Flesh|Flesh]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Faith|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Family|Next Entry]]