[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Fall of Adam and Eve|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Fan|Next Entry]]

 The Bible is family oriented. The first man and woman—Adam and Eve—were a family. When they were cast out of the Garden of Eden, Adam ate his bread by the sweat of his brow; and Eve, his wife, labored with him ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5#^verse-1|Moses 5:1]]). All the early recorded events in the life of Adam and Eve show them doing things together (see, for example, [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 4|Moses 4]] and [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 5|5]]). The history of Israel begins with the family of Abraham. He is highly esteemed of the Lord as a father and teaches his children properly ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 18#^verse-17|Gen. 18:17-19]]). Family life is safeguarded with such divine commandments as [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 20#^verse-12|Ex. 20:12, 14-17]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 21#^verse-15|21:15-17]]. The frequent genealogical lists in the scriptures give evidence of the importance that is placed on family. The book of Proverbs offers many instructions directed toward the family, such as [[Old Testament/Proverbs/Proverbs 13#^verse-1|Prov. 13:1, 22]]; [[Old Testament/Proverbs/Proverbs 15#^verse-5|15:5, 20]]; [[Old Testament/Proverbs/Proverbs 19#^verse-13|19:13, 26]].

 Jesus' teachings were directed to a family type of life, as in [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-45|Matt. 5:45]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 10#^verse-21|10:21]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 13#^verse-57|13:57]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 19#^verse-3|19:3-9]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 10#^verse-2|Mark 10:2-9]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 6#^verse-36|Luke 6:36]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 15#^verse-31|15:31]]; [[New Testament/John/John 19#^verse-27|John 19:27]]. The Lord frequently referred to His Father and emphasized the "Fatherliness" of God. Paul and Peter gave much counsel about the duties of husbands and wives, parents and children ([[New Testament/Ephesians/Ephesians 6#^verse-1|Eph. 6:1-4]]; [[New Testament/Colossians/Colossians 3#^verse-18|Col. 3:18-21]]; [[New Testament/1 Peter/1 Peter 3#^verse-1|1 Pet. 3:1-7]]).

 Latter-day revelation confirms all that the Bible teaches about the family and adds the most important truth that through the gospel of Jesus Christ the family can be sealed together in a permanent relationship for time and all eternity ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132|D&C 132]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Fall of Adam and Eve|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Fan|Next Entry]]