[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jachin and Boaz|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jacob's Well|Next Entry]]

 Supplanter. (1) The younger of the twin sons of Isaac ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 25#^verse-24|Gen. 25:24-26]]). The two brothers were rivals from their birth, and Esau's descendants, the Edomites, were rivals of the Israelites ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 25#^verse-23|Gen. 25:23]]). The chief events of Jacob's life were the "purchase" of the birthright ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 25#^verse-29|25:29-34]]); the dream and vow ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 28|Gen. 28]]); his long stay in the house of Laban ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 29|Gen. 29-31]]); the return to Canaan, the reception at Penuel of the new name of Israel, and the reconciliation with Esau ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 32|Gen. 32-33]]); his later life with his family at Shechem, Ephrath, and Mamre (Hebron) ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 33|Gen. 33-37]]); his journey into Egypt, his death there, and his burial in the cave of Machpelah ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 45|Gen. 45-50]]). It was through Jacob that the covenant of Abraham continued ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 28#^verse-1|Gen. 28:1-4, 12-22]]); it was then passed on to Joseph and Ephraim.

 There has been much misunderstanding about Jacob, and even well-meaning students of the Bible criticize some of Jacob's dealings. The supposed deception of his father in obtaining the blessing ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 27|Gen. 27]]) cannot be taken at face value. The Lord is not obligated to bless an unworthy person simply because gracious words were pronounced upon him by mistake. The key to the matter is expressed in [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 27#^verse-33|Gen. 27:33]] wherein Isaac, after learning Jacob's true identity, said, "Yea, and he shall be blessed." Isaac could have revoked the blessing at that time, but he seemed to affirm that it had been rightly delivered. Jacob's subsequent life demonstrates that he deserved the blessing he received, while Esau's life shows disobedience and some displeasing choices of wives ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 26#^verse-34|Gen. 26:34-35]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 28#^verse-8|28:8-9]]). The so-called purchase of the birthright from Esau may very well be equally justified by items of Esau's errant behavior that disqualified him but that are not recorded in our Bible. We learn from latter-day revelation that Jacob "did none other things than that which [he was] commanded" and is today exalted upon a throne in heaven, in company with Abraham and Isaac ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-37|D&C 132:37]]). There are references to Jacob in [[Old Testament/Hosea/Hosea 12#^verse-3|Hosea 12:3-4, 12]]; [[Old Testament/Malachi/Malachi 1|Mal. 1-2]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 8#^verse-11|Matt. 8:11]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 22#^verse-32|22:32]]; [[New Testament/Romans/Romans 9#^verse-13|Rom. 9:13]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-9|Heb. 11:9, 20-21]].

 (2) Father of Joseph, husband of Mary ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 1#^verse-15|Matt. 1:15-16]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jachin and Boaz|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jacob's Well|Next Entry]]