[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jambres|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/James, Epistle of|Next Entry]]

 An English form of the Hebrew name Jacob. There are several persons of this name mentioned in the New Testament. (1) Son of Zebedee, one of the Twelve, brother of John. His call is given in [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 4#^verse-21|Matt. 4:21]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 1#^verse-19|Mark 1:19-20]]; and [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 5#^verse-10|Luke 5:10]]. He was given the name Boanerges ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 3#^verse-17|Mark 3:17]]) and was one of the inner circle of three chosen to be with our Lord on certain special occasions: at the raising of the daughter of Jairus ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 5#^verse-37|Mark 5:37]]), at the Transfiguration ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 17#^verse-1|Matt. 17:1]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 9#^verse-2|Mark 9:2]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 9#^verse-28|Luke 9:28]]), and at Gethsemane ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 26#^verse-37|Matt. 26:37]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 14#^verse-33|Mark 14:33]]; see also [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 10#^verse-30|Mark 10:30, 41]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 13#^verse-3|13:3]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 8#^verse-51|Luke 8:51]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 9#^verse-54|9:54]]). He was killed by Herod ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 12#^verse-2|Acts 12:2]]).

 (2) Son of Alphaeus, also one of the Twelve ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 10#^verse-3|Matt. 10:3]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 3#^verse-18|Mark 3:18]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 6#^verse-15|Luke 6:15]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 1#^verse-13|Acts 1:13]]).

 (3) Brother of the Lord ([[New Testament/Galations/Galations 1#^verse-19|Gal. 1:19]]) and of Joses, Simon, Jude, and some sisters ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 13#^verse-55|Matt. 13:55]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 6#^verse-3|Mark 6:3]]; [[New Testament/Jude#^verse-1|Jude 1:1]]); known as James the Just. He occupied an important position in the Church of Jerusalem ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 12#^verse-17|Acts 12:17]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 15#^verse-13|15:13]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 21#^verse-18|21:18]]; [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 15#^verse-7|1 Cor. 15:7]]; [[New Testament/Galations/Galations 2#^verse-9|Gal. 2:9-12]]) and was probably the writer of the Epistle of James.

 (4) James, called "the Less," son of Mary and brother of Joses ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 27#^verse-56|Matt. 27:56]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 15#^verse-40|Mark 15:40]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 24#^verse-10|Luke 24:10]]). Nothing further is known of him, unless he is, as some think, the same as number 3 (above).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jambres|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/James, Epistle of|Next Entry]]