[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jephthah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jeremias or Jeremy|Next Entry]]

 Born of a priestly family in Anathoth, and prophesied from the 13th year of Josiah till after the downfall of Jerusalem, a period of over 40 years, 626-586 B.C. After Josiah's death he tried to stem, almost alone, the tide of idolatry and immorality, of self-deception founded on superficial reforms ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 3#^verse-4|Jer. 3:4-5]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 7#^verse-8|7:8-10]]), and of fanatical confidence in the Lord's protection, in which all classes were carried away. He had to face continuous opposition and insult from the priests ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 20#^verse-2|20:2]]), the mob ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 26#^verse-8|26:8-9]]), his townsmen at Anathoth ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 11#^verse-19|11:19]]), the frivolous and cruel ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 22#^verse-13|22:13]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 36#^verse-23|36:23]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 26#^verse-20|26:20]]), the king ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 36#^verse-19|36:19]]), and the army ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 38#^verse-4|38:4]]). After the fall of Jerusalem the Jews who escaped into Egypt took Jeremiah with them as a kind of fetish ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 43#^verse-6|43:6]]), and at last, according to tradition, stoned him to death. The circumstances under which his prophecies were written down are described in [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 36|Jer. 36]]. An arrangement of the chapters in chronological order is indicated below.

 The prophet dwells much on the inwardness of the Lord's relation to the mind of His servants. External service is useless where there is no devotion of heart and life; superficial reforms were of no avail—a complete regeneration in the national life was required. He develops the idea of individual fellowship with the Lord ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 5#^verse-1|5:1, 7, 26-28]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 9#^verse-1|9:1-6]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 18|18]]); though the Jewish state falls, the Lord remains, and religion remains in the life of the individual.

 The main divisions of the books are as follows:

 Prophecies of reign of Josiah (626-608), [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 1|Jer. 1-6]].

 Prophecies under Jehoiakim (608-597), [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 7|Jer. 7-20]].

 Prophecies under Zedekiah (597-586), [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 21|Jer. 21-38]], divisible into several groups. (a) [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 21|Jer. 21-23]], on pastors or rulers of the people, with promise of the king Messiah ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 23#^verse-1|23:1-6]]); [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 24|Jer. 24]], on exiles carried away with Jehoiachin. (b) [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 26|Jer. 26-29]], on the false prophets, containing the prophet's letter to the exiles in Babylon, warning against the prophets there. (c) [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 30|Jer. 30-33]], prophecies of the latter-day restoration of Israel and the gospel covenant, containing the story of the prophet's buying a field, showing the firmness of his faith in the people's restitution. (d) [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 34|Jer. 34-38]], narratives of the treatment of the prophet and other events during the last times of the siege.

 [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 39|Jer. 39-44]], the prophet's history and other events after the fall of the city.

 [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 46|Jer. 46-51]], prophecies against foreign nations. [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 50|Chapters 50-51]] in their present form are later than Jeremiah. [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 52|Chapter 52]] forms a historical conclusion.

 Notable passages from Jeremiah include the following: [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 1#^verse-4|1:4-5]], an acknowledgment of man's premortal existence, and Jeremiah's foreordination; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 3#^verse-12|3:12-19]], prophecy of the return of Israel from the scattered condition, gathering one of a city and two of a family to Zion, a pleasant land where Israel and Judah can dwell in safety and peace; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 16#^verse-14|16:14-21]], a prophecy of the Lord gathering Israel from the north countries by sending many fishers and hunters to find them. This event of the latter days will supersede in proportion even the bringing of Israel out of Egypt by Moses.

 Some of Jeremiah's prophecies were contained in the brass plates of Laban secured by Nephi ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 5#^verse-10|1 Ne. 5:10-13]]). Jeremiah is also mentioned two other times in the Book of Mormon ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 7#^verse-14|1 Ne. 7:14]]; [[Book of Mormon/Helaman/Helaman 8#^verse-20|Hel. 8:20]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jephthah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jeremias or Jeremy|Next Entry]]