[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jordan River|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Joseph, stick of|Next Entry]]

 (1) Son of Rachel, Jacob's second wife ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 30#^verse-22|Gen. 30:22-24]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 37#^verse-3|37:3]]). An extensive account of his life is given in [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 37|Gen. 37-50]]. The story is especially instructive in showing the discipline of misfortune and also that the Lord rewards his obedient children according to their faithfulness. The story of Joseph is also an illustration of the way in which God works in history, preserving his people. Joseph's valor in resisting the allurements of Potiphar's wife is an unequaled example of faith, chastity, and personal purity. His protection was his faith, as illustrated by his words: "How then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God" ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 39#^verse-9|Gen. 39:9]]). In the New Testament, Joseph is mentioned only once ([[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-21|Heb. 11:21-22]]), as an example of faith.

 Joseph obtained the birthright in Israel because he was worthy and because it was his natural right. When Reuben, the actual firstborn, lost the privilege by transgression ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 5#^verse-1|1 Chr. 5:1-2]]), Joseph, as the firstborn son of Jacob's second wife, was next in line for the blessing. Joseph was a visionary man, a dreamer and interpreter of dreams, "a man in whom the Spirit of God is" ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 41#^verse-38|Gen. 41:38]]).

 Special blessings and prophecies on the head of Joseph and his posterity are found in [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 48|Gen. 48]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 49#^verse-1|49:1, 22-26]]; and [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 33#^verse-13|Deut. 33:13-17]]. When Joseph died in Egypt at age 110, he was embalmed; but, in keeping with his own previous request, he was kept from burial until Moses and the children of Israel took his bones to Canaan to be buried near his father and other ancestors ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 50#^verse-22|Gen. 50:22-26]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 13#^verse-19|Ex. 13:19]]; [[Old Testament/Joshua/Joshua 24#^verse-32|Josh. 24:32]]).

 Latter-day revelation confirms many of the biblical details about Joseph and adds other important facts (see [[Study Helps/Joseph Smith Translation Appendix/JST, Genesis/JST, Genesis 50#^verse-24|JST Gen. 50:24-38 [Appendix]]]; [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 3#^verse-4|2 Ne. 3:4-22]]; [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 4#^verse-2|4:2]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 10#^verse-3|Alma 10:3]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 46#^verse-23|46:23-27]]). It is through latter-day revelation that the larger mission of the family of Joseph in the last days is illustrated.

 The tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, Joseph's children, were among the ten tribes of the Northern Kingdom of Israel, and thus among the "lost tribes." Also, one portion of Joseph's descendants came to America about 600 B.C. and established two great peoples. The record of their doings is called the Book of Mormon. It has also been primarily Joseph's descendants whom the Lord has called upon first in these last days to carry the gospel to the nations of the earth, in compliance with the covenant God made with Abraham. See also [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Abraham, covenant of|Abraham, covenant of]]; [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ephraim|Ephraim]]; [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Patriarch, patriarchs|Patriarch]].

 (2) Son of Heli and husband of the virgin Mary. His descent could be traced from David by a double line ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 1#^verse-1|Matt. 1:1-16]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 3#^verse-23|Luke 3:23-38]]). He lived at Nazareth and espoused Mary, possibly the daughter of his uncle Jacob. It was shortly before the marriage that Mary received the visit from the angel Gabriel. The birth of the child, Jesus, was miraculous, His mother being His only earthly parent; but Joseph was naturally regarded in Nazareth as His father, and the holy child treated him as such ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-48|Luke 2:48, 51]]). It is probable that Joseph died before the Crucifixion (and probably before our Lord's baptism), as otherwise Mary would hardly have been committed by our Lord to the keeping of John ([[New Testament/John/John 19#^verse-26|John 19:26-27]]).

 (3) Of Arimathea (of Ramah, [[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 1#^verse-1|1 Sam. 1:1]]); a "counsellor," a member of the Sanhedrin, a rich and faithful Israelite who took no part in the condemnation of our Lord, and after the Crucifixion buried His body ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 27#^verse-57|Matt. 27:57, 59]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 15#^verse-43|Mark 15:43-45]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 23#^verse-50|Luke 23:50]]; [[New Testament/John/John 19#^verse-38|John 19:38]]).

 (4) "Called Barsabbas," one of the two men chosen as fit to take the place of Judas in the apostolic company, and therefore a disciple of Jesus from His baptism till the Ascension ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 1#^verse-21|Acts 1:21-26]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Jordan River|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Joseph, stick of|Next Entry]]