[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Lo-ruhamah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Lot|Next Entry]]

 The so-called lost books of the Bible are those documents that are mentioned in the Bible in such a way that it is evident they were considered authentic and valuable but that are not found in the Bible today. Sometimes called missing scripture, they consist of at least the following: book of the Wars of the Lord ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 21#^verse-14|Num. 21:14]]); book of Jasher ([[Old Testament/Joshua/Joshua 10#^verse-13|Josh. 10:13]]; [[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 1#^verse-18|2 Sam. 1:18]]); book of the acts of Solomon ([[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 11#^verse-41|1 Kgs. 11:41]]); book of Samuel the seer ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 29#^verse-29|1 Chr. 29:29]]); book of Gad the seer ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 29#^verse-29|1 Chr. 29:29]]); book of Nathan the prophet ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 29#^verse-29|1 Chr. 29:29]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 9#^verse-29|2 Chr. 9:29]]); prophecy of Ahijah ([[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 9#^verse-29|2 Chr. 9:29]]); visions of Iddo the seer ([[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 9#^verse-29|2 Chr. 9:29]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 12#^verse-15|12:15]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 13#^verse-22|13:22]]); book of Shemaiah ([[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 12#^verse-15|2 Chr. 12:15]]); book of Jehu ([[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 20#^verse-34|2 Chr. 20:34]]); sayings of the seers ([[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 33#^verse-19|2 Chr. 33:19]]); an epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, earlier than our present 1 Corinthians ([[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 5#^verse-9|1 Cor. 5:9]]); possibly an earlier epistle to the Ephesians ([[New Testament/Ephesians/Ephesians 3#^verse-3|Eph. 3:3]]); an epistle to the Church at Laodicea ([[New Testament/Colossians/Colossians 4#^verse-16|Col. 4:16]]); and some prophecies of Enoch, known to Jude ([[New Testament/Jude#^verse-14|Jude 1:14]]). To these rather clear references to inspired writings other than our current Bible may be added another list that has allusions to writings that may or may not be contained within our present text but may perhaps be known by a different title; for example, the book of the covenant ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 24#^verse-7|Ex. 24:7]]), which may or may not be included in the current book of Exodus; the manner of the kingdom, written by Samuel ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 10#^verse-25|1 Sam. 10:25]]); the rest of the acts of Uzziah written by Isaiah ([[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 26#^verse-22|2 Chr. 26:22]]).

 The foregoing items attest to the fact that our present Bible does not contain all of the word of the Lord that He gave to His people in former times and remind us that the Bible, in its present form, is rather incomplete.

 Matthew's reference to a prophecy that Jesus would be a Nazarene ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 2#^verse-23|2:23]]) is interesting when it is considered that our present Old Testament seems to have no statement as such. There is a possibility, however, that Matthew alluded to [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 11#^verse-1|Isa. 11:1]], which prophesies of the Messiah as a Branch from the root of Jesse, the father of David. The Hebrew word for branch in this case is netzer, the source word of Nazarene and Nazareth. Additional references to the Branch as the Savior and Messiah are found in [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 23#^verse-5|Jer. 23:5]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 33#^verse-15|33:15]]; [[Old Testament/Zechariah/Zechariah 3#^verse-8|Zech. 3:8]]; [[Old Testament/Zechariah/Zechariah 6#^verse-12|6:12]]; these use a synonymous Hebrew word for branch, tzemakh.

 The Book of Mormon makes reference to writings of Old Testament times and connection that are not found in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, or in any other known source. These writings are of Zenock, Zenos, and Neum ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 19#^verse-10|1 Ne. 19:10]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 33#^verse-3|Alma 33:3-17]]). An extensive prophecy by Joseph in Egypt (which is not in the Bible) is also apparent from [[Book of Mormon/2 Nephi/2 Nephi 3#^verse-4|2 Ne. 3:4-22]], and a prophecy of Jacob (not found in the Bible) is given in [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 46#^verse-24|Alma 46:24-26]]. These writings were evidently contained on the plates of brass spoken of in the Book of Mormon ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 5#^verse-10|1 Ne. 5:10-13]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Lo-ruhamah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Lot|Next Entry]]