[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Martyr|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Mary Magdalene|Next Entry]]

 (1) Mother of Jesus. The virgin, cousin of Elisabeth ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-36|Luke 1:36]]); betrothed to Joseph ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 1#^verse-18|Matt. 1:18]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-27|Luke 1:27]]); the Annunciation ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-26|26-38]]); visits Elisabeth ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-40|40-45]]); magnifies the Lord ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-46|46-55]]); returns ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 1#^verse-56|56]]); Joseph warned not to put her away ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 1#^verse-18|Matt. 1:18-25]]); goes to Bethlehem with Joseph ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-4|Luke 2:4-5]]); the Nativity ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-7|7, 16]]); visit of the shepherds ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-16|16-20]]); the Purification ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-21|2:21-38]]); the Magi visit ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 2#^verse-11|Matt. 2:11]]); in Egypt ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 2#^verse-13|13-14]]); returns to Nazareth ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 2#^verse-19|19-23]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-39|Luke 2:39]]); goes up to the Passover ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-41|41-52]]); at the wedding at Cana ([[New Testament/John/John 2#^verse-2|John 2:2-5]]). Other references during our Lord's ministry include [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 12#^verse-46|Matt. 12:46]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 13#^verse-54|13:54-55]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 3#^verse-31|Mark 3:31-32]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 6#^verse-3|6:3]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 8#^verse-19|Luke 8:19]]. She was entrusted to John ([[New Testament/John/John 19#^verse-25|John 19:25-26]]) and was with the Apostles after the Ascension ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 1#^verse-14|Acts 1:14]]). There is no trustworthy history of her later years. Latter-day revelation confirms the biblical account and affirms that Mary was a pure and a chosen vessel and the mother of the Son of God in the flesh ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 11#^verse-13|1 Ne. 11:13-20]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 3#^verse-8|Mosiah 3:8]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 7#^verse-10|Alma 7:10]]).

 (2) Sister of Lazarus and Martha. Sat at Jesus' feet ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 10#^verse-39|Luke 10:39, 42]]); sent for Jesus after the death of Lazarus ([[New Testament/John/John 11#^verse-1|John 11:1-45]]); anointed Jesus with ointment ([[New Testament/John/John 12#^verse-3|John 12:3-8]]).

 (3) The mother of James and Joses, at the cross ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 27#^verse-56|Matt. 27:56]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 15#^verse-40|Mark 15:40]]); perhaps the same Mary called the wife of Cleophas ([[New Testament/John/John 19#^verse-25|John 19:25]]); at the burial ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 27#^verse-61|Matt. 27:61]]); "the other Mary" ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 15#^verse-47|Mark 15:47]]); at the tomb in the morning ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 28#^verse-1|Matt. 28:1]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 16#^verse-1|Mark 16:1]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 24#^verse-10|Luke 24:10]]).

 (4) Mother of Mark ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 12#^verse-12|Acts 12:12]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Martyr|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Mary Magdalene|Next Entry]]