[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ministry|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Miriam|Next Entry]]

 An important element in the work of Jesus Christ, being not only divine acts, but forming also a part of the divine teaching. Christianity is founded on the greatest of all miracles, the Resurrection of our Lord. If that be admitted, other miracles cease to be improbable. Miracles should not be regarded as deviations from the ordinary course of nature so much as manifestations of divine or spiritual power. Some lower law was in each case superseded by the action of a higher. They were intended to be a proof to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 11#^verse-4|Matt. 11:4-5]]; [[New Testament/John/John 2#^verse-11|John 2:11]]; [[New Testament/John/John 10#^verse-25|10:25]]; [[New Testament/John/John 20#^verse-30|20:30-31]]). Many of them were also symbolic, teaching such divine truths as the result of sin and the cure of sin; the value of faith; the curse of impurity; and the law of love. The miracles of healing also show how the law of love is to deal with the actual facts of life. Miracles were and are a response to faith and its best encouragement. They were never wrought without prayer, felt need, and faith.

 It is important to notice the different names by which miracles are described. They are called signs, as being visible tokens of an invisible power; they are powers or mighty works, because they are the acts of One who is almighty; they are simply works, or the natural results of the Messiah's presence among men; they are wonders, marvels, because of the effect produced on those who saw them. The following miracles are found in one Gospel only:

 Matthew. (1) The curing of two blind men ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 9#^verse-27|9:27-31]]); (2) the casting out of a devil from the dumb man ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 9#^verse-32|9:32-34]]); (3) a piece of money in the fish's mouth ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 17#^verse-24|17:24-27]]).

 Mark. (1) The healing of a deaf and dumb man ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 7#^verse-31|7:31-37]]); (2) the restoration of the sight of the blind man at Bethsaida ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 8#^verse-22|8:22-26]]).

 Luke. (1) The draught of fishes ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 5#^verse-4|5:4-11]]); (2) the raising of the widow's son ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 7#^verse-11|7:11-16]]); (3) the healing of the woman with a spirit of infirmity ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 13#^verse-11|13:11-17]]); (4) the healing of the man afflicted with dropsy ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 14#^verse-1|14:1-6]]); (5) the cleansing of the 10 lepers ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 17#^verse-12|17:12-19]]); (6) the healing of Malchus ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 22#^verse-50|22:50-51]]).

 John. (1) Water made wine ([[New Testament/John/John 2#^verse-1|2:1-11]]); (2) the healing of the nobleman's son ([[New Testament/John/John 4#^verse-46|4:46-54]]); (3) the healing of the impotent man at Bethesda ([[New Testament/John/John 5#^verse-1|5:1-16]]); (4) the restoration of sight to the man blind from birth ([[New Testament/John/John 9|John 9]]); (5) the raising of Lazarus ([[New Testament/John/John 11#^verse-1|11:1-45]]); (6) the net full of fishes ([[New Testament/John/John 21#^verse-1|21:1-24]]).

 Miracles are a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ. If miracles cease it is because faith has ceased. See [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 6#^verse-5|Mark 6:5-6]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mormon/Mormon 9#^verse-10|Morm. 9:10-20]]; [[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 12#^verse-12|Ether 12:12]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ministry|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Miriam|Next Entry]]