[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Moriah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Moses, law of|Next Entry]]

 Son of Amram ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 6#^verse-16|Ex. 6:16, 18, 20]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 6#^verse-1|1 Chr. 6:1-3]]); family ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 23#^verse-13|1 Chr. 23:13-17]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 26#^verse-24|26:24-25]]); birth, exposure, and adoption ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 2#^verse-1|Ex. 2:1-10]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-20|Acts 7:20-21]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-23|Heb. 11:23]]); refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter ([[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-24|Heb. 11:24]]); flight into Midian ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 2#^verse-10|Ex. 2:10-20]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-24|Acts 7:24-29]]); marriage, birth of Gershom ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 2#^verse-21|Ex. 2:21-22]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-29|Acts 7:29]]); the bush, sent to Egypt ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 3|Ex. 3]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 105#^verse-26|Ps. 105:26]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-30|Acts 7:30-35]]); the three signs ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 4#^verse-1|Ex. 4:1-9, 21-23]]); Aaron his spokesman ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 4#^verse-10|Ex. 4:10-16]]); departs to Egypt ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 4#^verse-19|Ex. 4:19-20]]); circumcision of Gershom ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 4#^verse-24|Ex. 4:24-26]]); met by Aaron ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 4#^verse-27|Ex. 4:27-28]]); assembles Israel ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 4#^verse-29|Ex. 4:29-31]]); interview with Pharaoh ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 5#^verse-1|Ex. 5:1-5]]); reproached by the people ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 5#^verse-20|Ex. 5:20-21]]); his complaint to God ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 5#^verse-22|Ex. 5:22-23]]); further promise and charge ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 6#^verse-1|Ex. 6:1-9, 28-30]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 7#^verse-1|7:1-9]]); the signs done ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 7#^verse-10|Ex. 7:10-11]]); the 10 plagues ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 7#^verse-19|Ex. 7:19-11:10]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 12#^verse-29|12:29-30]]); pursuit, and passage of the Red Sea ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 14|Ex. 14]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-36|Acts 7:36]]); believed by the people ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 14#^verse-31|Ex. 14:31]]; [[Old Testament/Joshua/Joshua 4#^verse-14|Josh. 4:14]]); his song ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 15#^verse-1|Ex. 15:1-19]]); the people murmur against, at Marah ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 15#^verse-24|Ex. 15:24]]); at Sin ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 16#^verse-2|Ex. 16:2-3]]); at Rephidim ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 17#^verse-2|Ex. 17:2-3]]); on the return of the spies ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 14#^verse-2|Num. 14:2]]); on the rebellion of Korah ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16#^verse-41|Num. 16:41]]); at Kadesh ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 20#^verse-2|Num. 20:2-3]]); when compassing Edom ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 21#^verse-5|Num. 21:5]]); sweetens the waters ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 15#^verse-25|Ex. 15:25]]); brings water out of the rock, at Horeb ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 17#^verse-5|Ex. 17:5-6]]); at Kadesh ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 20#^verse-7|Num. 20:7-11]]); brings quails, at Sin ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 16#^verse-13|Ex. 16:13]]); at Kibroth-hattaavah ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 11#^verse-31|Num. 11:31-34]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 105#^verse-40|Ps. 105:40]]); manna ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 16#^verse-14|Ex. 16:14-36]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 11#^verse-6|Num. 11:6-9]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 8#^verse-3|Deut. 8:3]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 9#^verse-15|Neh. 9:15]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 78#^verse-24|Ps. 78:24]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 105#^verse-40|105:40]]; [[New Testament/John/John 6#^verse-31|John 6:31-32]]); holds the rod while Joshua and Amalek fight ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 17#^verse-9|Ex. 17:9-12]]); goes up to God, the Law ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 19|Ex. 19]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 12#^verse-21|Heb. 12:21]]); returns, with the tables ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 31#^verse-18|Ex. 31:18]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 32#^verse-7|32:7, 15-16]]); God will make of him a nation ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 32#^verse-9|Ex. 32:9-10]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 14#^verse-12|Num. 14:12]]); his intercessions ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 32#^verse-11|Ex. 32:11-13, 30-34]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 34#^verse-8|34:8-9]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 106#^verse-23|Ps. 106:23]]); also at Taberah ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 11#^verse-2|Num. 11:2]]); on the return of the spies ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 14#^verse-13|Num. 14:13-19]]); on the rebellion of Korah ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16#^verse-22|Num. 16:22]]); breaks the tables ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 32#^verse-19|Ex. 32:19]]); destroys the calf ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 32#^verse-20|Ex. 32:20]]); has the idolators slain ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 32#^verse-25|Ex. 32:25-29]]); a leader in God's stead ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 33#^verse-1|Ex. 33:1-3]]); speaks with God face to face in the tabernacle ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 33#^verse-7|Ex. 33:7-11]]); sees God's glory ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 33#^verse-12|Ex. 33:12-23]]); two new tables ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 34#^verse-1|Ex. 34:1-4, 27]]; [[Study Helps/Joseph Smith Translation Appendix/JST, Exodus/JST, Exodus 34#^verse-1|JST Ex. 34:1-2 [Appendix]]]); with God another 40 days ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 34#^verse-28|Ex. 34:28]]); his face shines, the veil ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 34#^verse-29|Ex. 34:29-35]]; [[New Testament/2 Corinthians/2 Corinthians 3#^verse-7|2 Cor. 3:7, 13]]); rears the tabernacle ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 40#^verse-17|Ex. 40:17-38]]); consecrates Aaron and his sons ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 8|Lev. 8]]); the census ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 1|Num. 1]]); again, in the plains of Moab ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 26|Num. 26]]); sends the spies ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 13|Num. 13]]); rebellion of Korah ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16|Num. 16]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 106#^verse-16|Ps. 106:16]]); sends to Edom ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 20#^verse-14|Num. 20:14]]); the brazen serpent ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 21#^verse-8|Num. 21:8-9]]; [[New Testament/John/John 3#^verse-14|John 3:14]]); song at the well ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 21#^verse-17|Num. 21:17-18]]); views the land ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 27#^verse-12|Num. 27:12-14]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 34#^verse-1|Deut. 34:1-4]]); appoints Joshua ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 27#^verse-15|Num. 27:15-23]]); settles the 2Â½ tribes ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 32|Num. 32]]); "a prophet like unto him" ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 18#^verse-15|Deut. 18:15-19]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 3#^verse-22|Acts 3:22]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-37|7:37]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Joseph Smith—History#^verse-40|JS—H 1:40]]); Ebal and Gerizim ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 27|Deut. 27-28]]); exhortations ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 29|Deut. 29-31]]); the elders gathered ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 31#^verse-28|Deut. 31:28]]); his song ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 32|Deut. 32]]); blesses the 12 tribes ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 33|Deut. 33]]); his death ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 34#^verse-1|Deut. 34:1-8]]); his greatness ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 34#^verse-10|Deut. 34:10-12]]); his meekness ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 12#^verse-3|Num. 12:3]]); his faithfulness ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 12#^verse-7|Num. 12:7]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 3#^verse-2|Heb. 3:2, 5]]).

 As was the case with many of the ancient prophets, Moses' ministry extended beyond the limits of his own mortal lifetime. In company with Elijah, he came to the Mount of Transfiguration and bestowed keys of the priesthood upon Peter, James, and John ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 17#^verse-3|Matt. 17:3-4]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 9#^verse-4|Mark 9:4-9]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 9#^verse-30|Luke 9:30]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 63#^verse-21|D&C 63:21]]; HC 3:387). From this event, which occurred before the Resurrection of Jesus, we understand that Moses was a translated being and had not died as reported in [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 34|Deut. 34]] ([[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 45#^verse-19|Alma 45:19]]). It was necessary that he be translated, in order to have a body of flesh and bones at the time of the Transfiguration, since the Resurrection had not yet taken place. Had he been a spirit only, he could not have performed the work on the mount of giving the keys to the mortal Peter, James, and John (see [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 129|D&C 129]]).

 Moses came again to the earth on April 3, 1836, to the temple in Kirtland, Ohio, and conferred the keys of the gathering of Israel upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 110|D&C 110]]), so that the keys of authority would once more be operative among men on the earth.

 Latter-day revelation speaks much concerning Moses. He is mentioned frequently in the Book of Mormon, and from the Doctrine and Covenants we learn concerning his ministry ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 84#^verse-20|D&C 84:20-26]]) and that he received the priesthood from his father-in-law Jethro ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 84#^verse-6|D&C 84:6]]). The Lord has also given us the record of several visions of Moses, which greatly enlarges our knowledge of him ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 1|Moses 1]]). The book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price also enriches our appreciation of its author.

 Latter-day revelation concerning Moses confirms the biblical account of his greatness, his divine calling, and the events of his ministry and reaffirms that he was the author of the five books that bear his name ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 5#^verse-11|1 Ne. 5:11]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 1#^verse-40|Moses 1:40-41]]). He is one of the greatest of men. For other references see [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 103#^verse-7|Ps. 103:7]]; [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 63#^verse-12|Isa. 63:12]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 15#^verse-1|Jer. 15:1]]; [[Old Testament/Malachi/Malachi 4#^verse-4|Mal. 4:4]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 23#^verse-2|Matt. 23:2]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 16#^verse-29|Luke 16:29, 31]]; [[New Testament/John/John 1#^verse-17|John 1:17]]; [[New Testament/John/John 5#^verse-46|5:46]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 7#^verse-20|Acts 7:20-44]]; [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 10#^verse-2|1 Cor. 10:2]]; [[New Testament/2 Timothy/2 Timothy 3#^verse-8|2 Tim. 3:8]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-23|Heb. 11:23-29]]; [[New Testament/Jude#^verse-9|Jude 1:9]]; [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 15#^verse-3|Rev. 15:3]]; [[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 4#^verse-2|1 Ne. 4:2]]; [[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 17#^verse-23|17:23-30, 42]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 8#^verse-3|D&C 8:3]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Joseph Smith—Matthew#^verse-55|JS—M 1:55]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Moriah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Moses, law of|Next Entry]]