[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Murder|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Mustard|Next Entry]]

 There are early references in the Old Testament to the practice of music ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 4#^verse-21|Gen. 4:21]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 31#^verse-27|31:27]]). For instances of its religious use see [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 15#^verse-20|Ex. 15:20]]; [[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 6#^verse-5|2 Sam. 6:5]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 15#^verse-16|1 Chr. 15:16-28]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 16#^verse-5|16:5-6, 42]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 25#^verse-1|25:1-7]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 5#^verse-11|2 Chr. 5:11-14]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 7#^verse-6|7:6]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 13#^verse-12|13:12-14]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 20#^verse-28|20:28]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 29#^verse-25|29:25-28]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 30#^verse-21|30:21]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 34#^verse-12|34:12]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 35#^verse-15|35:15, 25]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 12#^verse-35|Neh. 12:35-36]]. For its secular use see [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 10#^verse-2|Num. 10:2-9]]; [[Old Testament/Joshua/Joshua 6#^verse-4|Josh. 6:4, 8]]; [[Old Testament/Judges/Judges 7#^verse-8|Judg. 7:8-19]]; [[Old Testament/Judges/Judges 11#^verse-34|11:34]]; [[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 18#^verse-6|1 Sam. 18:6]]; [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 16#^verse-10|Isa. 16:10]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 48#^verse-33|Jer. 48:33]]. The building of the temple gave an impetus to the study of music and led to the formation of a large choir for the proper performance of services ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 15#^verse-16|1 Chr. 15:16]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 23#^verse-5|23:5-6]]; [[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 25#^verse-1|25:1-6]]).

 Little is known about the form or character of Hebrew music. Possibly the Jews were ignorant of the principles of harmony and of methods of forming harmonic chords. Their instrumental music would sound noisy and harsh to our ears. The Psalms were probably sung to simple melodies and accompanied by instruments ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 6#^verse-5|2 Sam. 6:5]]). The chief stringed instruments in use were the harp, psaltery, viol, and ten-stringed lute. Wind instruments were the organ, pipe, trumpet, horn, and cornet. Besides these, there were percussion instruments, such as the timbrel or tabret and cymbals.

 The Old Testament also mentions certain Babylonish instruments ([[Old Testament/Daniel/Daniel 3#^verse-5|Dan. 3:5]]), such as the cornet (or cow's horn), flute (a Pan's pipe or small organ), harp, sackbut (also a kind of harp), psaltery (or dulcimer), and the instrument that the KJV translates "dulcimer," a kind of bagpipe.

 The New Testament mentions that angels sang at the birth of Jesus ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 2#^verse-13|Luke 2:13-14]]), and that Jesus and the Twelve sang a hymn after the Last Supper ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 26#^verse-30|Matt. 26:30]]). Latter-day revelation also confirms the spiritual value of good music. The Lord has said, "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads" ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 25#^verse-12|D&C 25:12]]). He also specified that a selection of sacred hymns be made for use in the Church ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 25#^verse-11|D&C 25:11]]). See also [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 14#^verse-2|Rev. 14:2-3]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 2#^verse-28|Mosiah 2:28]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 45#^verse-71|D&C 45:71]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 66#^verse-11|66:11]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 101#^verse-18|101:18]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 109#^verse-39|109:39]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 133#^verse-33|133:33]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 136#^verse-28|136:28]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Murder|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Mustard|Next Entry]]