[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/No|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Nob|Next Entry]]

 Rest. The patriarch; son of Lamech ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 5#^verse-29|Gen. 5:29-32]]). When he was 10 years old, Noah was ordained to the priesthood by Methuselah ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 107#^verse-52|D&C 107:52]]). He became a preacher of righteousness and declared the gospel of Jesus Christ, even as Enoch, teaching faith, repentance, baptism, and the reception of the Holy Ghost ([[New Testament/2 Peter/2 Peter 2#^verse-5|2 Pet. 2:5]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 8#^verse-19|Moses 8:19, 23-24]]). His life was sought by unbelievers, but he was preserved by the power of God ([[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 8#^verse-18|Moses 8:18, 26]]). He and his sons Japheth, Shem, and Ham, and their wives, making eight in all, were saved from the Flood by the ark he had built at the command of God ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 6|Gen. 6-8]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11#^verse-7|Heb. 11:7]]; [[New Testament/1 Peter/1 Peter 3#^verse-20|1 Pet. 3:20]]). We learn from latter-day revelation that Noah is also the angel Gabriel (HC 3:386).

 The Lord's covenant with Noah affirmed that the earth would never be covered with a flood again ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 9#^verse-1|Gen. 9:1-17]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 7#^verse-49|Moses 7:49-52]]). Noah, a righteous man, holds the keys of a dispensation and stands next to Adam in authority (HC 3:386). Other references to Noah are [[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 54#^verse-9|Isa. 54:9]]; [[Old Testament/Ezekiel/Ezekiel 14#^verse-14|Ezek. 14:14, 20]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 24#^verse-37|Matt. 24:37-38]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 3#^verse-36|Luke 3:36]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 17#^verse-26|17:26-27]].

 The tradition of a great flood is found in nearly every ancient culture. A Babylonian account closely resembles the record in the Bible, but the biblical account differs from all others in its religious value and the purpose of it. The scriptural account teaches that the Flood was sent to cleanse the earth because of the wickedness of the people. Noah and his family were saved because they were righteous ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 6#^verse-9|Gen. 6:9]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 8#^verse-27|Moses 8:27]]). The authenticity of the Genesis account of the Flood is confirmed by latter-day revelation as recorded in [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 7#^verse-34|Moses 7:34, 42-43]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 8#^verse-8|8:8-30]]. See also [[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 13#^verse-2|Ether 13:2]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/No|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Nob|Next Entry]]