[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Persia|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Peter, Epistles of|Next Entry]]

 Rock. Brother of Andrew ([[New Testament/John/John 1#^verse-40|John 1:40]]) and son of Jonah ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 16#^verse-17|Matt. 16:17]]); also known as Simeon ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 15#^verse-14|Acts 15:14]]; [[New Testament/2 Peter/2 Peter 1#^verse-1|2 Pet. 1:1]]) or Simon; originally a fisherman of Bethsaida, on the northern coast of the Sea of Galilee. He was called by Jesus to be a disciple ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 4#^verse-18|Matt. 4:18-22]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 1#^verse-16|Mark 1:16-20]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 5#^verse-1|Luke 5:1-11]]; [[New Testament/John/John 1#^verse-40|John 1:40-42]]); at that time he was living at Capernaum with his wife and his wife's mother ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 8#^verse-14|Matt. 8:14]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 1#^verse-29|Mark 1:29]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 4#^verse-38|Luke 4:38]]). His Aramaic name, Cephas, of which Peter is the Greek equivalent, was given him by the Lord ([[New Testament/John/John 1#^verse-40|John 1:40-42]]). He was one of the three disciples present on several important occasions ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 17#^verse-1|Matt. 17:1]]; [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 26#^verse-37|26:37]]; [[New Testament/Mark/Mark 5#^verse-37|Mark 5:37]]). Other references to him are found in [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 14#^verse-28|Matt. 14:28-33]]; [[New Testament/John/John 6#^verse-66|John 6:66-71]]; and in the very important passage [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 16#^verse-13|Matt. 16:13-19]], where we find his confession of the Lord as the Messiah and the Son of God. The words then addressed to him, "Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church," have been made the foundation of the papal claims. But it is the Christ, the Son of God, which Peter had just confessed, who is the true cornerstone of the Church.

 Other events connected with his life: his denial ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 26#^verse-33|Matt. 26:33-35, 58, 69-75]]; for parallel passages in the other Gospels, see the [[Study Helps/Harmony of the Gospels/Introduction|Harmony of the Gospels]] in the appendix); at the Resurrection ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 16#^verse-7|Mark 16:7]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 24#^verse-12|Luke 24:12, 34]]; [[New Testament/John/John 20#^verse-2|John 20:2-7]]; [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 15#^verse-5|1 Cor. 15:5]]); with our Lord by the Sea of Galilee ([[New Testament/John/John 21|John 21]]); in Jerusalem after Pentecost ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 2|Acts 2-5]]); with Simon Magus ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 8#^verse-14|Acts 8:14-24]]); at Lydda and Joppa ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 9#^verse-32|Acts 9:32-43]]); with Cornelius ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 10#^verse-1|Acts 10:1-11:18]]); in prison ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 12#^verse-1|Acts 12:1-19]]); at the Jerusalem conference ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 15#^verse-7|Acts 15:7-11]]; [[New Testament/Galations/Galations 2#^verse-7|Gal. 2:7-9]]); and at Antioch ([[New Testament/Galations/Galations 2#^verse-11|Gal. 2:11]]). From his epistle we learn ([[New Testament/1 Peter/1 Peter 5#^verse-13|1 Pet. 5:13]]) that he worked in Babylon (which may be the well-known city on the Euphrates, or more likely is a disguised name for Rome) and had as his companions Mark and Silvanus or Silas. It was possibly under his direction that Mark wrote his Gospel. From A.D. 44 to 61 he was probably at work in Syrian towns, having Antioch as his center. It is generally believed that he suffered martyrdom at Rome, perhaps in 64 or 65.

 Peter was one of the greatest of men. It is true that the New Testament recounts some mortal weaknesses, but it also illustrates that he overcame them and was made strong by his faith in Jesus Christ. The Lord honored Peter by selecting him to hold the keys of the kingdom on earth ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 16#^verse-13|Matt. 16:13-18]]), and it was upon the holy mount that Peter received these keys from the Savior, Moses, and Elias (Elijah) ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 17#^verse-1|Matt. 17:1-12]]). Peter was the chief Apostle of his day; and after the death, Resurrection, and Ascension of the Savior, it was Peter who called the Church together and acted in the office of his calling as the one who possessed the keys of the priesthood ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 1#^verse-2|Acts 1:2]]). It was through Peter's ministry that the gospel was first opened up to the Gentiles ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 10|Acts 10-11]]).

 In the latter days Peter, with James and John, came from heaven and literally conferred the Melchizedek Priesthood and the keys thereof upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. This took place in May or June 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. See [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 27#^verse-12|D&C 27:12-13]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Persia|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Peter, Epistles of|Next Entry]]