[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Prick|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Prisca|Next Entry]]

 The essential idea of a Hebrew priest was that of a mediator between his people and God by representing them officially in worship and sacrifice. By virtue of his office he was able to draw nigh to God, while they, because of their sins and infirmities, must needs stand afar off. The priest exercised his office mainly at the altar by offering the sacrifices and above all the incense ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16#^verse-40|Num. 16:40]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-2|18:2-3, 5, 7]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 33#^verse-10|Deut. 33:10]]) but also by teaching the people the law ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 10#^verse-10|Lev. 10:10, 11]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 33#^verse-10|Deut. 33:10]]; [[Old Testament/Malachi/Malachi 2#^verse-7|Mal. 2:7]]), by communicating to them the divine will ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 27#^verse-21|Num. 27:21]]), and by blessing them in the name of the Lord ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 6#^verse-22|Num. 6:22-27]]).

 The priest does not take his office upon himself but is chosen of God ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16#^verse-5|Num. 16:5]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 5#^verse-4|Heb. 5:4]]). In an especial sense he belongs to God ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16#^verse-5|Num. 16:5]]) and is holy to Him ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16#^verse-5|Num. 16:5]]).

 The priests must be Aaron's sons ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 16#^verse-3|Num. 16:3-10, 40]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-1|18:1]]) and free from all important bodily blemishes or infirmities or diseases. They were under special restrictions with respect to uncleanness for the dead, marriage, wine or strong drink when engaged in sacerdotal duties ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 10#^verse-9|Lev. 10:9]]). The ordinary universal prohibitions were specially binding on them; their families were under special and stricter laws, and liable to more severe punishments than the rest of the people.

 Nothing is specified in the law as to the age at which a priest might begin to exercise his office. Levites were qualified according to the law at 30 or 25 ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 4#^verse-3|Num. 4:3]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 8#^verse-23|8:23-26]]), and according to later usage at 20 ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 23#^verse-24|1 Chr. 23:24, 27]]). Consecration to the priestly office consisted of two parts: ceremonial and sacrificial.

 Their ceremonial functions were: (1) They were washed at the door of the tabernacle. (2) They were clothed with the priestly garments (coats, girdles, and miters or turbans). (3) They were anointed ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 40#^verse-15|Ex. 40:15]]) with holy oil. Their sacrificial function included the offering of three sacrifices: (1) a bullock as a sin offering, to put away their sin; (2) a ram as a burnt offering, to indicate the full and complete surrender of themselves to God; (3) a ram as a peace or consecration offering. The blood of the ram was put upon the tip of the priest's right ear, the thumb of his right hand, and the great toe of his right foot. Obedience to the divine voice and activity in the divine service were thus symbolized. The priest's hands were filled (see [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 13#^verse-33|1 Kgs. 13:33]], "consecrated him"; Hebrew "filled his hand") with the fat, the kidneys, the right thigh or shoulder, and part of the meal offering. The gifts that henceforward they would offer to the Lord on behalf of the people were thus committed to them.

 For the maintenance of the priests were assigned: (1) Portions of the Altar Offerings—namely, the whole of the sin and guilt offerings (except the fat), and the meal offerings, except the small portion burnt on the altar ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-9|Num. 18:9]]); the skin of the burnt offering ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 7#^verse-8|Lev. 7:8]]); the wave breast and the heave thigh of the peace offerings ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 7#^verse-34|Lev. 7:34]]). (2) The Firstfruits, especially of the seven products of Palestine ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 8#^verse-8|Deut. 8:8]])—wheat, barley, oil, wine, figs, pomegranates, and honey; but also all kinds of fruits ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-13|Num. 18:13]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 26#^verse-2|Deut. 26:2]]); dough ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 15#^verse-20|Num. 15:20-21]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 10#^verse-37|Neh. 10:37]]); and the fleece of sheep ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 18#^verse-4|Deut. 18:4]]). There was also the heave offering, the gift of the best of the produce of the soil ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-12|Num. 18:12]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 10#^verse-35|Neh. 10:35, 37]]). (3) The Firstborn: the redemption money, in the case of man (five shekels, [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-16|Num. 18:16]]), and unclean beasts (one-fifth more than the priest's estimation, [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 27#^verse-27|Lev. 27:27]]); and the clean beasts themselves ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-15|Num. 18:15-17]]). (4) The Tithe of the Levitical Tithe ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-26|Num. 18:26-28]]). (5) The Offerings. Some of these were given to the service of the Sanctuary, but things devoted were the priest's ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 27#^verse-21|Lev. 27:21]]). (6) Certain cities (13 in number, all in Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin) with their suburbs; but the priests were to have no part or inheritance in the land ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-20|Num. 18:20]]; [[Old Testament/Joshua/Joshua 21#^verse-13|Josh. 21:13-19]]).

 David divided the priestly families into twenty-four courses. Four only returned from the captivity, and these were again subdivided into twenty-four. Each course officiated for a week at a time, the change being made on the Sabbath, between the morning and the evening sacrifices. All the courses officiated together at the great festivals. See also [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/High priest|High priest]]; [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ministry|Ministry]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Prick|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Prisca|Next Entry]]