[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Proverbs, book of|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Psaltery|Next Entry]]

 The Psalms collectively are called in Hebrew Tehillim or "Praises," but the word mizmor, which denotes a composition set to music, is found in the titles of many of them. The book is the first in order of the "Scriptures" (Kethubim) or Hagiographa, which with the Law and the Prophets make up the Hebrew Old Testament. See [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Bible|Bible]].

 No book of the Old Testament is more Christian in its inner sense or more fully attested as such by the use made of it than the Psalms. Out of a total of 283 direct citations from the Old Testament in the New, 116 have been counted from this one book. Much of Christianity by its preference for the Psalms reverses the custom of the Synagogue, which judged the psalmists' inspiration inferior to that of the prophets and set Moses on high above them all, so that no prophet might teach any new thing but only what was implicitly contained in the law.

 Titles are added to some of the Psalms, but it is open to question whether these are as old as the words to which they are attached. They mainly refer to the manner in which the words were to be sung or accompanied. Some Psalms were to be accompanied by stringed instruments (Neginah, Neginoth [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 4|Ps. 4]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 54|54-55]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 61|61]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 67|67]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 76|76]]; and [[Old Testament/Habakkuk/Habakkuk 3#^verse-19|Hab. 3:19]]), others by wind instruments (Nehiloth [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 5|Ps. 5]]); while such titles as "Set to Alamoth" ("maidens," [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 46|Ps. 46]]), or "Set to the Sheminith" ("the octave," [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 6|Ps. 6]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 12|12]]), seem to imply that there was singing in parts. Some of the titles appear to be intended to indicate the character of the Psalm, as Maschil ("giving instruction," [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 32|Ps. 32]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 42|42]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 44|44-45]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 52|52-55]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 74|74]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 78|78]]; and [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 88|88-89]]), Michtam, rendered by some Golden Psalm ([[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 16|Ps. 16]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 56|56-60]]); while Shiggaion ([[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 7|Ps. 7]]) with Shigionoth ([[Old Testament/Habakkuk/Habakkuk 3#^verse-1|Hab. 3:1]]) may refer to the irregular erratic style of the compositions, and Gittith ("belonging to Gath," [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 8|Ps. 8]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 81|81]]; [[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 84|84]]) may relate either to the melody or to the instrument used in the performance. The other titles are all probably names of tunes, well known at the time, to which the Psalms were appointed to be sung.

 Seventy-three of the psalms are ascribed to David, and so it was natural that the whole collection should be referred to as his, and that this convenient way of speaking should give rise in time to the popular belief that "the sweet psalmist of Israel" himself wrote all the so-called Psalms of David. Sacred psalmody is ascribed to him in general terms in 1 and 2 Chr., the accompanying instruments also being called "instruments of David," as in [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 12#^verse-36|Neh. 12:36]] and [[Old Testament/Amos/Amos 6#^verse-5|Amos 6:5]]. In some cases in which a psalm is ascribed to David in the Hebrew, it is certain that he could not have written it, and it has been concluded that the Hebrew titles are sometimes inaccurate.

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Proverbs, book of|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Psaltery|Next Entry]]