[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Restitution, restoration|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Retaliation, law of, or lex talionis|Next Entry]]

 The Resurrection consists in the uniting of a spirit body with a body of flesh and bones, never again to be divided. The Resurrection shall come to all, because of Christ's victory over death. Jesus Christ was the first to be resurrected on this earth ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 27#^verse-52|Matt. 27:52-54]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 26#^verse-23|Acts 26:23]]; [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 15#^verse-23|1 Cor. 15:23]]; [[New Testament/Colossians/Colossians 1#^verse-18|Col. 1:18]]; [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 1#^verse-5|Rev. 1:5]]). Others had been brought back from death but were restored to mortality ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 5#^verse-22|Mark 5:22-43]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 7#^verse-11|Luke 7:11-17]]; [[New Testament/John/John 11#^verse-1|John 11:1-45]]), whereas a resurrection means to become immortal, with a body of flesh and bone.

 All will not be raised to the same glory in the Resurrection ([[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 15#^verse-39|1 Cor. 15:39-42]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76|D&C 76]]), nor will all come forth at the same time (see [[New Testament/1 Corinthians/1 Corinthians 15#^verse-23|1 Cor. 15:23]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 40#^verse-8|Alma 40:8]]). Christ was first; the righteous have precedence over the wicked and come forth in the First Resurrection, whereas the unrepentant sinners come forth in the last resurrection ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 20#^verse-5|Rev. 20:5-13]]).

 The New Testament gives ample evidence that Jesus rose with His physical body: He ate fish and honey ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 24#^verse-42|Luke 24:42-43]]); He said He had flesh and bones ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 24#^verse-39|Luke 24:39]]); the people touched Him ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 24#^verse-39|Luke 24:39-40]]; [[New Testament/John/John 20#^verse-25|John 20:25-29]]); the tomb was empty ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 24#^verse-2|Luke 24:2-3]]; [[New Testament/John/John 20#^verse-1|John 20:1-10]]); and the angels said He had risen ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 16#^verse-1|Mark 16:1-6]]).

 One of the most fundamental doctrines taught by the Twelve was that Jesus was risen from the tomb, with His glorified, resurrected body, as in [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 1#^verse-21|Acts 1:21-22]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 2#^verse-32|2:32]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 3#^verse-15|3:15]]; [[New Testament/Acts/Acts 4#^verse-33|4:33]]. To obtain a resurrection with a celestial, exalted body is the center point of hope in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Resurrection of Jesus is the most glorious of all messages to mankind.

 Latter-day revelation confirms the reality of the Resurrection of Christ and of all mankind, as in [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 11#^verse-41|Alma 11:41-45]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 40|40]]; [[Book of Mormon/3 Nephi/3 Nephi 11|3 Ne. 11]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 76|D&C 76]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Moses/Moses 7#^verse-62|Moses 7:62]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Restitution, restoration|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Retaliation, law of, or lex talionis|Next Entry]]