[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Seraphim|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Serpent, brazen|Next Entry]]

 [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-1|Matt. 5:1-7:29]]. A discourse by the Lord to His disciples who were about to be sent forth on missions. It should be placed chronologically soon after the calling of the Twelve. It is similar in many respects to a sermon recorded in [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 6#^verse-20|Luke 6:20-49]], although the Matthew account contains more pointed references to the law, the prophets, and the individual calling and responsibility of the disciples. The Luke account appears to have a more general application. For example, "Ye are the salt of the earth" ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-13|Matt. 5:13]]); "Ye are the light of the world" ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-14|Matt. 5:14]]); and, "take no thought, saying, What shall we eat ... drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed" ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 6#^verse-31|Matt. 6:31]]) do not occur in the Luke account. The Sermon in Matthew is greatly clarified by the JST (see [[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5|Matt. 5-7 footnotes]] and [[Study Helps/Joseph Smith Translation Appendix/Introduction|JST Appendix]]) and a similar sermon recorded in [[Book of Mormon/3 Nephi/3 Nephi 12|3 Ne. 12-14]]. These sources reveal that certain plain and precious information has not survived in the KJV account.

 A brief analysis of the Matthew record is as follows:

 The subjects of the kingdom: their character and privileges ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-3|5:3-12]]), and their responsibility ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-13|5:13-16]]).

 The kingdom of heaven in relation to the law ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-17|5:17-48]]) and Pharisaic rules ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 6#^verse-1|6:1-34]]). It is the highest fulfillment of the law in regard to the Decalogue ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-21|5:21-37]]); the law of retaliation ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-38|5:38-42]]); and love or charity ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 5#^verse-43|5:43-48]]). It exceeds the righteousness of the Pharisees in regard to almsgiving ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 6#^verse-1|6:1-4]]); prayer ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 6#^verse-5|6:5-15]]); fasting ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 6#^verse-16|6:16-18]]); and earthly possessions and daily cares ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 6#^verse-19|6:19-34]]).

 Characteristics of the life within the kingdom: judgment on others ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 7#^verse-1|7:1-6]]); the Father's love for His children ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 7#^verse-7|7:7-12]]); the narrow entrance ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 7#^verse-13|7:13-14]]); the danger of false guides and the test of the true ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 7#^verse-15|7:15-23]]); a description of the true subjects of the kingdom, as distinguished from the false ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 7#^verse-24|7:24-27]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Seraphim|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Serpent, brazen|Next Entry]]