[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Syrophenician|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Tabret|Next Entry]]

 The center place of Israel's worship activities during the wanderings and until the building of the temple in Solomon's day. The tabernacle was in fact a portable temple. It was an inner tent, the area available for sacred purposes ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 26#^verse-7|Ex. 26:7]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 36#^verse-14|36:14]]). It was oblong, 30 cubits in length and 10 in breadth and height. Its north, west, and south sides were made of 46 boards (10 cubits by 1Â½) and two narrower corner ones of acacia wood ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 26#^verse-15|Ex. 26:15]]), overlaid with gold ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 26#^verse-29|26:29]]). These boards were fitted with golden rings, through which were passed bars of acacia wood overlaid with gold to fasten all firmly together. Suspended over them, and serving as an inner lining to the tent covering, was the rich covering—10 curtains (each 28 cubits by 4) made of fine twined linen, and blue and purple and scarlet, embroidered with figures of cherubim ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 26#^verse-1|Ex. 26:1]]).

 Over the tabernacle the tent was spread. Its length was 40 cubits, or 10 cubits longer than the tabernacle. The entrance toward the east was closed by a screen of blue, purple, and scarlet and fine twined linen. Over the tent came the covering of the tent, which consisted of two parts: (1) an inner covering of ramskins dyed red; (2) a covering of badger skins over all ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 26#^verse-14|Ex. 26:14]]).

 The tent stood in a court 100 cubits by 50, surrounded by a fence ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 27#^verse-18|Ex. 27:18]]) five cubits high, composed of pillars and hangings of fine white linen. The entrance toward the east was 20 cubits wide ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 27#^verse-16|Ex. 27:16]]) and was closed by a screen of linen of four different colors on four pillars.

 In the court outside the tent and in front of its door stood the altar of burnt offering, a square of five cubits, three cubits high. Its outer frame was acacia wood overlaid with brass ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 27#^verse-1|Ex. 27:1-2, 8]]), whence its name ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 39#^verse-39|Ex. 39:39]]). The hollow was probably filled with earth or unhewn stones ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 20#^verse-24|Ex. 20:24-25]]). Around and halfway up the altar was a ledge ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 27#^verse-5|Ex. 27:5]]), supported by a grating or network of brass. Besides various brazen utensils for use in the sacrifices, it had rings and staves by means of which it was carried.

 Between the altar of burnt offering and the door of the tent stood a laver of brass on a base of brass ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 30#^verse-18|Ex. 30:18]]). In it the priests washed their hands and feet when they went into the tent for any priestly purpose ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 30#^verse-19|Ex. 30:19-21]]).

 The tabernacle was divided into two parts by a veil of the same materials as the screen of the court, the inner roof covering of the tabernacle, and the screen of the tent ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 36#^verse-35|Ex. 36:35, 37]]). In the outer compartment (20 cubits by 10), called the Holy Place, were three things: (1) In the middle, before the veil and before the mercy seat ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 30#^verse-6|Ex. 30:6]]), stood the altar of incense, similar in construction to the altar of burnt offering but smaller and overlaid with gold. On it incense was burned morning and evening (no animal sacrifices); and on its horns was put once a year, on the Day of Atonement, the blood of the sin offering ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 30#^verse-10|Ex. 30:10]]). (2) On the south side of the altar of incense stood the candlestick ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 26#^verse-35|Ex. 26:35]]), of pure gold of beaten work, with six branches and seven lamps. Pure olive oil beaten was burned in the lamps ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 27#^verse-20|Ex. 27:20-21]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 24#^verse-2|Lev. 24:2]]). Aaron lit the lamps at evening and dressed them in the morning ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 30#^verse-8|Ex. 30:8]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 24#^verse-3|Lev. 24:3]]). (3) On the north side of the altar stood the table of shewbread ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 25#^verse-23|Ex. 25:23-30]]) made of acacia wood. On it was placed the shewbread, consisting of 12 unleavened cakes made of fine flour. They were placed in two rows (or piles), and frankincense was put on each row ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 24#^verse-7|Lev. 24:7]]). The shewbread was changed every Sabbath day, and the old loaves were eaten by the priests in a holy place ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 24#^verse-9|Lev. 24:9]]).

 The Holy of Holies contained only one piece of furniture: the Ark of the Covenant, or the Ark of the Testimony ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 25#^verse-22|Ex. 25:22]]). It was an oblong box of acacia wood, 2Â½ cubits long and 1Â½ cubits wide and high, overlaid within and without with gold, and with a rim or edging of gold round its top. It had rings and staves by which to carry it, and the staves were never to be removed from the rings ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 25#^verse-15|Ex. 25:15]]). The ark had within it "The Testimony" (the two tables of stone) ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 25#^verse-21|Ex. 25:21]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 31#^verse-18|31:18]]). From these the ark got both its names. According to [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 9#^verse-4|Heb. 9:4]] the ark also contained a pot of manna and Aaron's rod that budded. In the Old Testament it is said of these that they were put or laid up "before the testimony" ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 16#^verse-34|Ex. 16:34]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 17#^verse-10|Num. 17:10]]). They were not in the ark in the time of Solomon ([[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 8#^verse-9|1 Kgs. 8:9]]). The book of the law was placed by the side of the ark of the covenant, not inside it ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 31#^verse-26|Deut. 31:26]]). Upon the ark and forming the lid was the mercy seat. It served, with the ark beneath, as an altar on which the highest atonement known to the Jewish law was effected. On it was sprinkled the blood of the sin offering of the Day of Atonement ([[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 16#^verse-14|Lev. 16:14-15]]). The mercy seat was the place of the manifestation of God's glory ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 25#^verse-22|Ex. 25:22]]). It was God's throne in Israel. Compare the phrase "The Lord God of Israel, which sitteth upon (or dwelleth between) the cherubim" ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 4#^verse-4|1 Sam. 4:4]]). At the ends were placed two cherubim of gold of beaten work, spreading out their wings so as to cover the mercy seat and looking toward it.

 The pattern of the tabernacle was delivered by God to Moses. Bezaleel and Aholiab were the chief constructors ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 31#^verse-3|Ex. 31:3-6]]). The people so freely offered for the service of the work that they had to be restrained from bringing. There was more than sufficient for all the work to make it ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 36#^verse-6|Ex. 36:6-7]]). The tabernacle with all its furniture was brought to Moses when complete, and on the first day of the first month of the second year (one year less 14 days from the Exodus) he reared it up and finished the work. When the whole building was set in order, the cloud covered the tent and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 40#^verse-34|Ex. 40:34]]). The cloud, the token of Jehovah's presence, had the appearance of a fire by night, and by its rising from or abiding on the tent, determined the journeyings and encampments of the children of Israel ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 40#^verse-34|Ex. 40:34]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 9#^verse-17|Num. 9:17-18]]). The tabernacle accompanied the children of Israel during their wanderings in the desert and in the different stages of the conquest of the land of Canaan. The conquest complete, it was fixed in Shiloh as the place that the Lord had chosen ([[Old Testament/Joshua/Joshua 18#^verse-1|Josh. 18:1]]). Here we find it in the earliest ([[Old Testament/Judges/Judges 18#^verse-31|Judg. 18:31]]) and latest days of the Judges ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 1#^verse-3|1 Sam. 1:3]]). At the time of the capture of the ark God forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh ([[Old Testament/Psalms/Psalms 78#^verse-60|Ps. 78:60]]). The ark never returned to the tabernacle. It was removed from Shiloh; we find it some years later with its priests and its table of shewbread at Nob ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 21#^verse-1|1 Sam. 21:1]]), and in Solomon's reign with its altar of burnt offering and ministered at by Zadok the high priest at Gibeon ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 16#^verse-39|1 Chr. 16:39-40]]). After the building of the temple it entirely disappears from the history.

 Isaiah uses the figure of the tabernacle as a foreshadowing of Zion and the holy city of Jerusalem when it is built up at the Lord's Second Coming ([[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 33#^verse-20|Isa. 33:20]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Syrophenician|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Tabret|Next Entry]]