[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Tirshatha|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Titus|Next Entry]]

 The word denotes a tenth part, given for the service of God. The first recorded instance is the payment made by Abraham to Melchizedek ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 14#^verse-20|Gen. 14:20]]; [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 7#^verse-4|Heb. 7:4-10]]). See also Jacob's vow ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 28#^verse-22|Gen. 28:22]]). The law enforced the payment and provided rules with regard to the use to which the tithe should be put. In [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-21|Num. 18:21-28]] it is directed that tithe be paid to the Levites, who in their turn give one-tenth of what they receive to the priests.

 A clear exposition of the tithe is given in [[Old Testament/Malachi/Malachi 3#^verse-8|Mal. 3:8-18]], in which it is shown that blessings from the payment of tithing are both temporal and spiritual, and failure to pay an honest tithe is a form of robbery. The importance of Malachi's words is demonstrated by the fact that the Lord repeated them to the Nephites (see [[Book of Mormon/3 Nephi/3 Nephi 24|3 Ne. 24]]).

 Latter-day revelation emphasizes the law of the tithe as a duty and a test of faithfulness ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 64#^verse-23|D&C 64:23-25]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 85#^verse-3|85:3]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 97#^verse-11|97:11]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 119|119]]). The honest payment of tithing sanctifies both the individual and the land on which he lives. See also [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 27#^verse-30|Lev. 27:30-34]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 12#^verse-5|Deut. 12:5-18]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 14#^verse-22|14:22-27]]; [[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 31#^verse-5|2 Chr. 31:5-12]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 10#^verse-38|Neh. 10:38]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 12#^verse-44|12:44]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 13#^verse-12|13:12]].

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Tirshatha|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Titus|Next Entry]]