[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ur|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Usury|Next Entry]]

 Hebrew term that means "Lights and Perfections." An instrument prepared of God to assist man in obtaining revelation from the Lord and in translating languages. See [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 28#^verse-30|Ex. 28:30]]; [[Old Testament/Leviticus/Leviticus 8#^verse-8|Lev. 8:8]]; [[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 27#^verse-21|Num. 27:21]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 33#^verse-8|Deut. 33:8]]; [[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 28#^verse-6|1 Sam. 28:6]]; [[Old Testament/Ezra/Ezra 2#^verse-63|Ezra 2:63]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 7#^verse-65|Neh. 7:65]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Joseph Smith—History#^verse-35|JS—H 1:35]].

 Using a Urim and Thummim is the special prerogative of a seer, and it would seem reasonable that such instruments were used from the time of Adam. However, the earliest mention is in connection with the brother of Jared ([[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 3#^verse-21|Ether 3:21-28]]). Abraham used a Urim and Thummim ([[Pearl of Great Price/Abraham/Abraham 3#^verse-1|Abr. 3:1-4]]), as did Aaron and the priests of Israel, and also the prophets among the Nephites ([[Book of Mormon/Omni#^verse-20|Omni 1:20-21]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 8#^verse-13|Mosiah 8:13-19]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 21#^verse-26|21:26-28]]; [[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 28#^verse-11|28:11-20]]; [[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 4#^verse-1|Ether 4:1-7]]). There is more than one Urim and Thummim, but we are informed that Joseph Smith had the one used by the brother of Jared ([[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 3#^verse-22|Ether 3:22-28]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 10#^verse-1|D&C 10:1]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 17#^verse-1|17:1]]). (See [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Seer|Seer]].) A partial description is given in [[Pearl of Great Price/Joseph Smith—History#^verse-35|JS—H 1:35]]. Joseph Smith used it in translating the Book of Mormon and in obtaining other revelations.

 This earth in its celestial condition will be a Urim and Thummim, and many within that kingdom will have an additional Urim and Thummim ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 130#^verse-6|D&C 130:6-11]]).

[[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Ur|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Bible Dictionary/Usury|Next Entry]]