[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Alcohol|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Alma the Elder|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Alma the Elder|Alma the Elder]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Amulek|Amulek]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Mosiah, Sons of|Mosiah, Sons of]]

 In the Book of Mormon, the first chief judge and prophet in the Nephite nation. In his early years he sought to destroy the Church ([[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 27#^verse-8|Mosiah 27:8-10]]). However, an angel appeared to him and he was converted to the gospel ([[Book of Mormon/Mosiah/Mosiah 27#^verse-8|Mosiah 27:8-24]]; [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 36#^verse-6|Alma 36:6-27]]). Later he gave up his position as chief judge in order to teach the people ([[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 4#^verse-11|Alma 4:11-20]]).

## The book of Alma

 A separate book in the Book of Mormon, comprising an abridgment of the records of the prophets Alma, the son of Alma, and his son Helaman. The events depicted in the book take place from approximately 91 to 52 B.C. The book contains 63 chapters. [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 1|Chapters 1-4]] describe the rebellion of the followers of Nehor and Amlici against the Nephites. The resulting wars were among the most destructive to that point in Nephite history. [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 5|Chapters 5-16]] contain the account of Alma's early missionary journeys, including his sermon on the Good Shepherd ([[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 5|Alma 5]]) and his preaching with Amulek in the city Ammonihah. [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 17|Chapters 17-27]] contain the record of the sons of Mosiah and their ministry among the Lamanites. [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 28|Chapters 28-44]] contain some of Alma's most important sermons. In [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 32|chapter 32]] Alma compared the word to a seed; in [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 36|chapter 36]] he recounted his conversion story to his son Helaman. [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 39|Chapters 39-42]] record Alma's counsel to his son Corianton, who had become involved in moral transgression; this important sermon explains justice, mercy, Resurrection, and the Atonement. [[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 45|Chapters 45-63]] describe Nephite wars of that time period and migrations under Hagoth. Such great leaders as Captain Moroni, Teancum, and Lehi helped to preserve the Nephites through their courageous and timely actions.

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Alcohol|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Alma the Elder|Next Entry]]