[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Darkness, Spiritual|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Day of the Lord|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Bathsheba|Bathsheba]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Psalm|Psalm]]

 A king of ancient Israel in the Old Testament.

 David was a son of Jesse of the tribe of Judah. He was a courageous youth who slew a lion, a bear, and the Philistine giant Goliath ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 17|1 Sam. 17]]). David was chosen and anointed to be king of Israel. Like Saul, in his adult life he was guilty of grave crimes, but, unlike Saul, he was capable of true contrition. He was therefore able to find forgiveness, except in the murder of Uriah ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-39|D&C 132:39]]). His life can be divided into four parts: (1) at Bethlehem, where he was a shepherd ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 16|1 Sam. 16-17]]); (2) in the court of King Saul ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 18#^verse-1|1 Sam. 18:1-19:18]]); (3) as a fugitive ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 19#^verse-18|1 Sam. 19:18-31:13]]; [[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 1|2 Sam. 1]]); (4) as king over Judah at Hebron ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 2|2 Sam. 2-4]]), and later as king over all Israel ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 5|2 Sam. 5-24]]; [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 1#^verse-1|1 Kgs. 1:1-2:11]]).

 David's sin of adultery with Bathsheba was followed by a series of misfortunes that marred the last twenty years of his life. The nation as a whole was prosperous during his reign, but David himself suffered from the consequences of his sins. There were constant family feuds, which, in the case of Absalom and Adonijah, ended in open rebellion. These incidents are a fulfillment of the pronouncement of Nathan the prophet upon David because of his sin ([[Old Testament/2 Samuel/2 Samuel 12#^verse-7|2 Sam. 12:7-13]]).

 In spite of these disasters, David's reign was the most brilliant of Israelite history, for (1) he united the tribes into one nation, (2) he secured undisputed possession of the country, (3) he based the government on the true religion so that the will of God was the law of Israel. For these reasons, David's reign was later regarded as the nation's golden age and the type of the more glorious age when the Messiah would come ([[Old Testament/Isaiah/Isaiah 16#^verse-5|Isa. 16:5]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 23#^verse-5|Jer. 23:5]]; [[Old Testament/Ezekiel/Ezekiel 37#^verse-24|Ezek. 37:24-28]]).

 David's life illustrates the need for all persons to endure in righteousness to the end. As a youth, he was said to be a man after the Lord's "own heart" ([[Old Testament/1 Samuel/1 Samuel 13#^verse-14|1 Sam. 13:14]]); as a man, he spoke by the Spirit and had many revelations. But he paid a heavy price for his disobedience to the commandments of God ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 132#^verse-39|D&C 132:39]]).

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Darkness, Spiritual|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Day of the Lord|Next Entry]]