[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Hebrew|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Hebron|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Paul|Paul]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Pauline Epistles|Pauline Epistles]]

 A book in the New Testament. Paul wrote this letter to Jewish members of the Church to persuade them that significant aspects of the law of Moses had been fulfilled in Christ and that the higher gospel law of Christ had replaced it. When Paul returned to Jerusalem at the end of his third mission (about A.D. 60), he found that many Jewish members of the Church were still committed to the law of Moses ([[New Testament/Acts/Acts 21#^verse-20|Acts 21:20]]). This was at least ten years after a conference of the Church at Jerusalem had determined that certain ordinances of the law of Moses were not necessary for the salvation of gentile Christians. Apparently, soon thereafter Paul wrote to the Hebrews to show them by their own scripture and by sound reason why they should no longer practice the law of Moses.

 [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 1|Chapters 1 and 2]] explain that Jesus is greater than the angels. [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 3|Chapters 3-7]] compare Jesus to Moses and to the law of Moses and testify that He is greater than both. They also teach that the Melchizedek Priesthood is greater than the Aaronic. [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 8|Chapters 8-9]] describe how the Mosaic ordinances prepared people for Christ's ministry and how Christ is the mediator of the new covenant ([[Book of Mormon/Alma/Alma 37#^verse-38|Alma 37:38-45]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 84#^verse-21|D&C 84:21-24]]). [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 10|Chapter 10]] is an exhortation to diligence and faithfulness. [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 11|Chapter 11]] is a discourse on faith. [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 12|Chapter 12]] gives admonitions and greetings. [[New Testament/Hebrews/Hebrews 13|Chapter 13]] relates the honorable nature of marriage and the importance of obedience.

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Hebrew|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Hebron|Next Entry]]