[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Jehovah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Jericho|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Lamentations, Book of|Lamentations, Book of]]

 An Old Testament prophet who was born to a priestly family and prophesied in Judah from 626 to 586 B.C. He lived near the time of other great prophets: Lehi, Ezekiel, Hosea, and Daniel.

 Jeremiah was ordained to be a prophet in the premortal life ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 1#^verse-4|Jer. 1:4-5]]). During his approximately forty years as prophet he taught against idolatry and immorality among the Jewish people ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 3#^verse-1|Jer. 3:1-5]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 7#^verse-8|7:8-10]]). He had to face continuous opposition and insult ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 20#^verse-2|Jer. 20:2]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 36#^verse-18|36:18-19]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 38#^verse-4|38:4]]). After the fall of Jerusalem, the Jews who escaped into Egypt took Jeremiah with them ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 43#^verse-5|Jer. 43:5-6]]), where, according to tradition, they stoned him to death.

## The book of Jeremiah

 [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 1|Chapters 1-6]] contain prophecies given during the reign of Josiah. [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 7|Chapters 7-20]] are prophecies during the time of Jehoiakim. [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 21|Chapters 21-38]] deal with the reign of Zedekiah. [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 39|Chapters 39-44]] contain prophecies and describe historical events after the fall of Jerusalem. [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 45|Chapter 45]] contains a promise to Baruch, his scribe, that Baruch's life would be preserved. Finally, [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 46|chapters 46-51]] are prophecies against foreign nations. [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 52|Chapter 52]] is a historical conclusion. Some of Jeremiah's prophecies were contained in the brass plates of Laban secured by Nephi ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 5#^verse-10|1 Ne. 5:10-13]]). Jeremiah is also mentioned two other times in the Book of Mormon ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 7#^verse-14|1 Ne. 7:14]]; [[Book of Mormon/Helaman/Helaman 8#^verse-20|Hel. 8:20]]).

 The book of Jeremiah also includes an acknowledgment of man's premortal existence and Jeremiah's foreordination ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 1#^verse-4|Jer. 1:4-5]]); a prophecy of the return of Israel from their scattered condition, gathering one of a city and two of a family to Zion, a pleasant land where Israel and Judah could dwell in safety and peace ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 3#^verse-12|Jer. 3:12-19]]); and a prophecy of the Lord gathering Israel from the north countries by sending many "fishers" and "hunters" to find them ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 16#^verse-14|Jer. 16:14-21]]). This event of the latter days will be larger in proportion than even Moses' bringing of Israel out of Egypt ([[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 16#^verse-13|Jer. 16:13-15]]; [[Old Testament/Jeremiah/Jeremiah 23#^verse-8|23:8]]).

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Jehovah|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Jericho|Next Entry]]