[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Joel|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/John the Baptist|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Apostle|Apostle]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Gospels|Gospels]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Melchizedek Priesthood|Melchizedek Priesthood]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Revelation of John|Revelation of John]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Translated Beings|Translated Beings]]

 One of the Twelve Apostles in the New Testament, a son of Zebedee, and a brother of James. In his early life he was a fisherman ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 1#^verse-17|Mark 1:17-20]]). He is probably the unnamed disciple of John the Baptist mentioned in [[New Testament/John/John 1#^verse-40|John 1:40]]. Later he received a call to be a disciple of Jesus Christ ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 4#^verse-21|Matt. 4:21-22]]; [[New Testament/Luke/Luke 5#^verse-1|Luke 5:1-11]]). He wrote the Gospel of John, three epistles, and the book of Revelation. He was one of three who were with the Lord at the raising of Jairus's daughter ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 5#^verse-35|Mark 5:35-42]]), at the Mount of Transfiguration ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 17#^verse-1|Matt. 17:1-9]]), and in Gethsemane ([[New Testament/Matthew/Matthew 26#^verse-36|Matt. 26:36-46]]). In his own writings he refers to himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved ([[New Testament/John/John 13#^verse-23|John 13:23]]; [[New Testament/John/John 21#^verse-20|21:20]]) and as the "other disciple" ([[New Testament/John/John 20#^verse-2|John 20:2-8]]). Jesus also called him and his brother Boanerges, "sons of thunder" ([[New Testament/Mark/Mark 3#^verse-17|Mark 3:17]]). There are frequent references to him in the accounts of the Crucifixion and Resurrection ([[New Testament/Luke/Luke 22#^verse-8|Luke 22:8]]; [[New Testament/John/John 18#^verse-15|John 18:15]]; [[New Testament/John/John 19#^verse-26|19:26-27]]; [[New Testament/John/John 20#^verse-2|20:2-8]]; [[New Testament/John/John 21#^verse-1|21:1-2]]). John was later banished to Patmos, where he wrote the book of Revelation ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 1#^verse-9|Rev. 1:9]]).

 John is mentioned frequently in latter-day revelation ([[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 14#^verse-18|1 Ne. 14:18-27]]; [[Book of Mormon/3 Nephi/3 Nephi 28#^verse-6|3 Ne. 28:6]]; [[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 4#^verse-16|Ether 4:16]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 7|D&C 7]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 27#^verse-12|27:12]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 61#^verse-14|61:14]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 77|77]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 88#^verse-141|88:141]]). These passages confirm the biblical record of John and also provide insight into his greatness and the importance of the work the Lord has given him to do on the earth in New Testament times and in the last days. The latter-day scriptures clarify that John did not die but was allowed to remain on the earth as a ministering servant until the time of the Lord's Second Coming ([[New Testament/John/John 21#^verse-20|John 21:20-23]]; [[Book of Mormon/3 Nephi/3 Nephi 28#^verse-6|3 Ne. 28:6-7]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 7|D&C 7]]).

## The epistles of John

 Although the writer of these three epistles does not mention himself by name, the language so strongly resembles that of John the Apostle that he is assumed to have written all three.

 [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 1|1 John 1]] admonishes the Saints to gain fellowship with God. [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 2|Chapter 2]] emphasizes that the Saints know God by obedience and instructs them to love not the world. [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 3|Chapter 3]] calls all to become the children of God and to love one another. [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 4|Chapter 4]] explains that God is love and dwells in those who love Him. [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 5|Chapter 5]] explains that Saints are born of God through belief in Christ.

 [[New Testament/2 John|2 John]] is similar to [[New Testament/1 John/1 John 1|1 John]]. In it John rejoices because of the faithfulness of the children of "the elect lady."

 [[New Testament/3 John|3 John]] commends a person called Gaius for his faithfulness and help to those who love the truth.

## The Gospel of John

 In this New Testament book, John the Apostle testified that (1) Jesus is the Christ or Messiah and (2) Jesus is the Son of God ([[New Testament/John/John 20#^verse-31|John 20:31]]). The scenes from Jesus' life that he describes are carefully selected and arranged with this object in view. The book begins with a statement of Christ's status in the premortal existence: He was with God, He was God, and He was the creator of all things. He was born in the flesh as the Only Begotten Son of the Father. John traces the course of Jesus' ministry, greatly emphasizing His divinity and His resurrection from the dead. He clearly affirms that Jesus is the Son of God, attested to by miracles, by witnesses, by the prophets, and by Christ's own voice. John teaches by contrasting light and darkness, truth and error, good and evil, God and the devil. Perhaps in no other record is the holiness of Jesus and the faithlessness of the Jewish rulers so plainly declared.

 John wrote mainly of Christ's ministry in Judea, especially the last week of His mortal ministry, whereas Matthew, Mark, and Luke wrote mainly of His ministry in Galilee. Several items from this Gospel have been clarified by latter-day revelation ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 7|D&C 7]] and [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 88#^verse-138|D&C 88:138-141]]).

 For a list of events in the Savior's life described in the Gospel of John, see [[Study Helps/Harmony of the Gospels/Introduction|Harmony of the Gospels]] in the appendix.

## The book of Revelation

 See [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Revelation of John|Revelation of John]]

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Joel|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/John the Baptist|Next Entry]]