[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Leprosy|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Levitical Priesthood|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Israel|Israel]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Jacob, Son of Isaac|Jacob, Son of Isaac]]

 In the Old Testament, the third son of Jacob and Leah ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 29#^verse-34|Gen. 29:34]]; [[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 35#^verse-23|35:23]]). Levi became the father of one of the tribes of Israel.

## The tribe of Levi

 Jacob blessed Levi and his descendants ([[Old Testament/Genesis/Genesis 49#^verse-5|Gen. 49:5-7, 28]]). Descendants of Levi ministered in the sanctuaries of Israel ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 1#^verse-47|Num. 1:47-54]]). Aaron was a Levite, and his descendants were priests ([[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 6#^verse-16|Ex. 6:16-20]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 28#^verse-1|28:1-4]]; [[Old Testament/Exodus/Exodus 29|29]]). The Levites assisted the priests, the sons of Aaron ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 3#^verse-5|Num. 3:5-10]]; [[Old Testament/1 Kings/1 Kings 8#^verse-4|1 Kgs. 8:4]]). They sometimes acted as musicians ([[Old Testament/1 Chronicles/1 Chronicles 15#^verse-16|1 Chr. 15:16]]; [[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 11#^verse-22|Neh. 11:22]]); slaughtered sacrifices ([[Old Testament/2 Chronicles/2 Chronicles 29#^verse-34|2 Chr. 29:34]]; [[Old Testament/Ezra/Ezra 6#^verse-20|Ezra 6:20]]); and generally assisted in the temple ([[Old Testament/Nehemiah/Nehemiah 11#^verse-16|Neh. 11:16]]). The Levites were dedicated to the service of the Lord to execute the ordinances for the children of Israel. The Levites were themselves offered on behalf of the children of Israel ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 8#^verse-11|Num. 8:11-22]]); they thus became God's peculiar property, given to Him in place of the firstborn ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 8#^verse-16|Num. 8:16]]). They were not consecrated but were cleansed for their office ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 8#^verse-7|Num. 8:7-16]]). They had no land inheritance in Canaan ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-23|Num. 18:23-24]]), but they received the tithe ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 18#^verse-21|Num. 18:21]]), forty-eight cities ([[Old Testament/Numbers/Numbers 35#^verse-6|Num. 35:6]]), and a right to receive the alms of the people at feast times ([[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 12#^verse-18|Deut. 12:18-19]]; [[Old Testament/Deuteronomy/Deuteronomy 14#^verse-27|14:27-29]]).

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Leprosy|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Levitical Priesthood|Next Entry]]