[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Moroni, Captain|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Moronihah, Son of Captain Moroni|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Book of Mormon|Book of Mormon]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Mormon, Nephite Prophet|Mormon, Nephite Prophet]]

 The last Nephite prophet in the Book of Mormon (about A.D. 421). Just before Mormon's death, he delivered a historical record called the plates of Mormon to his son Moroni ([[Book of Mormon/Words of Mormon#^verse-1|W of M 1:1]]). Moroni finished compiling the plates of Mormon. He added [[Book of Mormon/Mormon/Mormon 8|chapters 8 and 9]] to the book of Mormon ([[Book of Mormon/Mormon/Mormon 8#^verse-1|Morm. 8:1]]). He abridged and included the book of Ether ([[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 1#^verse-1|Ether 1:1-2]]) and added his own book called the book of Moroni ([[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 1|Moro. 1]]). Moroni sealed up the plates and hid them in the hill Cumorah ([[Book of Mormon/Mormon/Mormon 8#^verse-14|Morm. 8:14]]; [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 10#^verse-2|Moro. 10:2]]). In 1823 Moroni was sent as a resurrected being to reveal the Book of Mormon to Joseph Smith ([[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 27#^verse-5|D&C 27:5]]; [[Pearl of Great Price/Joseph Smith—History#^verse-30|JS—H 1:30-42, 45]]). He instructed the young prophet each year from 1823 to 1827 ([[Pearl of Great Price/Joseph Smith—History#^verse-54|JS—H 1:54]]) and finally delivered the plates to him in 1827 ([[Pearl of Great Price/Joseph Smith—History#^verse-59|JS—H 1:59]]). After completing the translation Joseph Smith returned the plates to Moroni.

## The book of Moroni

 The final book within the Book of Mormon. It was written by the last Nephite prophet, Moroni. [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 1|Chapters 1-3]] tell of the final destruction of the Nephites, giving instruction on the conferring of the Holy Ghost and the priesthood. [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 4|Chapters 4-5]] detail the exact mode of administering the sacrament. [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 6|Chapter 6]] summarizes the work of the Church. [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 7|Chapters 7-8]] are sermons on the first principles of the gospel, including teachings by Mormon on faith, hope, and charity and on the way to judge good and evil ([[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 7|Moro. 7]]), and Mormon's explanation that little children are alive in Christ and need no baptism ([[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 8|Moro. 8]]). [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 9|Chapter 9]] describes the depravity of the Nephite nation. [[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 10|Chapter 10]] is Moroni's final message and includes the way to know the truth of the Book of Mormon ([[Book of Mormon/Moroni/Moroni 10#^verse-3|Moro. 10:3-5]]).

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Moroni, Captain|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Moronihah, Son of Captain Moroni|Next Entry]]