[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Revelation|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Reverence|Next Entry]]

 See also [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Apocalypse|Apocalypse]]; [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/John, Son of Zebedee|John, Son of Zebedee]]

 The last book in the New Testament, consisting of a revelation given to John the Apostle. He was permitted to see the history of the world, especially the last days ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 1#^verse-1|Rev. 1:1-2]]; [[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 14#^verse-18|1 Ne. 14:18-27]]; [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 77|D&C 77]]). The Revelation of John is also known as the Apocalypse.

 John received this revelation on the Lord's day on the isle of Patmos ([[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 1#^verse-9|Rev. 1:9-10]]), off the coast of Asia, not far from Ephesus. The exact date of the revelation is not known.

 Keys to understanding the book are included in [[Book of Mormon/1 Nephi/1 Nephi 14#^verse-18|1 Nephi 14:18-27]] and [[Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants/Doctrine and Covenants 77|Doctrine and Covenants 77]] ([[Book of Mormon/Ether/Ether 4#^verse-15|Ether 4:15-16]]).

 [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 1|Chapters 1-3]] are an introduction to the book and letters to the seven churches in Asia. John wrote the letters to help the Saints resolve certain problems. [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 4|Chapters 4-5]] record visions that John received showing the majesty and righteous power of God and Christ. In [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 6|chapters 6-9]], [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 11|11]], John recorded seeing a book sealed with seven seals, each seal representing one thousand years of the earth's temporal history. These chapters deal primarily with events contained in the seventh seal (see [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 8|Rev. 8-9]]; [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 11#^verse-1|11:1-15]]). [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 10|Chapter 10]] describes a book that John ate. The book represents a future mission that he would perform. [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 12|Chapter 12]] records a vision of the evil that began in heaven when Satan rebelled and was cast out. The war that began there continues to be fought on earth. In [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 13|chapters 13]], [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 17|17-19]], John described the wicked earthly kingdoms controlled by Satan and recorded their fate, including the final destruction of evil. [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 14|Chapters 14-16]] describe the righteousness of the Saints in the midst of evil just before the Second Coming of Christ. [[New Testament/Revelation/Revelation 20|Chapters 20-22]] describe the Millennium, the beautiful city of New Jerusalem, and the final events of the earth's history.

[[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Revelation|Previous Entry]]  ||  [[Study Helps/Guide to the Scriptures/Reverence|Next Entry]]